Introductions
Hello. My name’s Peter. What’s your name?
My name is
Where are you from Janet?
I am from Seattle. Where are you from?
I am from Madrid.
Are you American
Yes, I am. Are you Spanish?
Yes I am.
Hello and goodbye - three short CONVERSATIONS
hello
Hello, Peter. How are you?
Fine, thanks. How are you?
I'm fine, thank you.
Goodbye
Goodbye, Janet
See you tomorrow!
Bye bye.
Have a nice evening.
Thanks, you too!
Thanks.
What time is it?
Excuse me.
Can you tell me the time, please?
Yes, of course.
It's seven o’clock.
Thank you.
No problem.
What time is it?
What time is it?
It’s half rupees three.
Thanks.
You're welcome.
Shopping for a sweater
Can I help you?
Yes, I am looking for a sweater.
What size are you?
I’m an extra large.
How about this one?
Yes, that’s nice. Can I try it on?
Certainly, there’s the changing room over there.
Thank you.
How does it fit?
It’s too large. Do you have a smaller size?
Yes, here you are.
Thank you. I
i'll have it, please.
OK, how would you like to pay?
Do you take credit cards?
Yes, we do. Visa, Master Card and American Express.
OK, here’s my Visa.
Thank you. Have a nice day!
Thank you, goodbye.
Checking in
Good morning. Can I have your ticket, please?
Here you are.
Thank you. Would you like smoking or non-smoking?
Non-smoking, please.
Would you like a window or an aisle seat?
An aisle seat, please.
Do you have any baggage?
Yes, this suitcase and this carry-on bag.
Here’s your boarding pass. Have a nice flight.
Thank you.
Passport control
Good morning. Can I see your passport?
Here you are.
Thank you very much. Are you a tourist or on business?
I'm a tourist.
That’s fine. Have a pleasant stay.
Thank you.
Directions
Excuse me. Is there a bank near here?
Yes. There’s a bank on the corner.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Directions
Excuse me. Is there a supermarket near here?
Yes. There’s one near here.
How do I get there?
At the traffic lights, take the first left and go straight on, It’s on the left.
Is it far?
Not really.
Thank you.
Don’t mention it.
Getting 4 room for the night

Good evening. Can I help you?

Yes, please. I'd like a room for the night.

Would you like a single room or a double room?
A single room, please. How much is the room?
It’s $55 per night.

Can I pay by credit card?

Certainly. We take Visa, Master Card and American Express.
Could you fill in this form, please?

Do you need my passport number? No, just an address and
your signature.
(fills out the form) Here you are.
Here’s your key. Your room number is 212.
Thank you.
Thank you. If you need anything, dial 0 for the reception area.
Have a good stay!
Ordering A meal
Hi. How are you doing this afternoon?
Fine, thank you. Can I see a menu, please?
Certainly, here you are.
Thank you. What’s today’s speciality?
Grilled tuna and cheese on rye.
That sounds good. I'll have that.
Would you like something to drink?
Yes, Pd like a coke.
Thank you. (returning with the food) Here you are. Enjoy your meai!
Thank you.
Can I get you anything else?
No thanks. Id like the check (bill - UK English), please.
That’ll be $6.75.
Here you are. Keep the change!
Thank you! Have a good day!
Bye.
What shall we do?
Hi Chris, would you like to do something with me this week-
end?

Sure. What shall we do?

I'don’t know. Do you have any ideas?

Why don’t we see a film?

That’s sounds good to me. Which. film shall we see?
B, Let’s see Action Man 4’.

I would rather not. I don’t like violent films. How about going to
‘Mad Doctor Brown’? I hear it’s quite a funny film.

OK. Let’s go and see that. When is it on?
It’s on at 8 o’clock at the Rex
Shall we have a bite to eat before


the film?

Sure, that sounds great. What about going to that new restaurant

Great idea! Let’s meet there at six.
OK.
I'll see you at restaurant at six. Bye.
Bye.

Calling someone at work

Hello. This is Kenneth. May I speak to Ms Sunshine,
please?

Hold the line a moment, I'll check if she is in her office.

Thank you.

(after a moment) Yes, Ms Sunshine is in. I'll put you through.
Hello, this is Ms Sunshine. How can I help you?

Hello, my name is Kenneth Beare and I’m calling to enquire
about the position advertised in Sunday’s Times.

Yes, the position is still open. Could I-have your name and.
number please?

Certainly, My Name is Kenneth Beare...

LeAviNG A MESSAGE

Hello. Could I speak to Jack Parkins, please.
Who’s calling, please?

This is Fred Blinkingham. ?'m Jack’s friend.

Hold the line, please. I'll put your through. (after a moment) -
Pm afraid he’s out at the moment. Can I take a message?

Yes. Can you ask him to give me a call? My number is 345-
Iim
8965

Could you repeat that, please?

Certainly. That’s 345-8965

OK. I'll make sure Mr. Parkins gets your message.

Thank you. Goodbye.

Goodbye.

Making AN APPOINTMENT

Helio. This is Richard Brown. Id like to make an appointment
to see Dr. Habi.

Certainly. What seems to be the problem?

[d like to have my annual check-up.

Fine. When would you be available to come in to see Dr. Habis,
Any day next week in the morning would be great.

How about next Thursday at 10 o’clock?

That sounds fine. Thank you.

We'll see you next Thursday, Mr. Brown. Goodbye.

Seeing the doctor

Hello, what’s the matter?

Good morning. I have a terrible ache in my lower back.
How long has your back been bothering you?

Pve been having pain for about the last two weeks.

Do you have any history of back problems?

No, this is the first time.
| Conversation 79 |

Are you taking any medicine at the moment?
No, just an aspirin from time to time to kill the pain.

OK. Let’s have a look at your back. Please take off your shirt

In the Gym

Hello, my name is Jane and Id like to ask a few questions
about getting fit.

Hi Jane. What can I do for you?
I need to get in shape.

Well, you've come to the right place. Have you been doing any
exercise lately?

I’m afraid not.

OK. We'll start of slow. Which type of exercise do you enjoy
doing?

I like doing aerobics, but I hate jogging. I don’t mind doing
some weight-lifting, though.

Great, that gives us plenty to work with. How often can you
work out?

Twice or three times a week would be good.

Why don’t we start with an aerobics class twice a weck fol-
lowed by a little weightlifting?

Sounds fine to me.

You'll need to start slowly and build up gradually to three or
four times a week.

OK. Whar kind of equipment will J need?

Youll need a lectard and some sneakers.
|” Spoken English |
Is that all? How do I sign up for the classes?

We'll need you to join the gym and then you can choose which
classes fics your schedule best.

Great! I can’e wait to get starred. Thanks for your advice.

No problem. I'll see you in aerobics class!

My Friend

My friend Rich is coming to town next week. Have you ever
met him?

No, I haven't.
He’s kind of crazy, but a great guy.
Yeah, why do you say so? What's he like?

He’s really hard working, but very much a loner. He’s pretty
talented and can do just about anything.

Sounds interesting. Is he married?
No, he isn’t.

What does he look like? Maybe my friend Alice would be interested in meeting him,

He’s tall, slim and quite good looking. Pm sure your friend
would find him attractive. What's she like?

She’s outgoing and very athletic.

Really? What sports does she like playing?

She’s a great tennis player and also goes bicycling a lot.
What does she look like?

She’s kind of exotic looking. She’s got long dark hair and piercing black eyes. People think she is rather beautiful.

Do you think she would like to meet Rich?
| Conversation 81 |

Sure! Why don’t we hook them up?
Great idea!

Winning the lotto

Tom, take a look at this! This guy’s won ten million dollars in
the lotto!

What luck!
A, What would you do if you won ten million dollars?

Well, I know what I WOULDN'T do! If I won so much money,
I wouldn’t spend it. Pd put it in the bank!

You've got to be joking! Pd make sure to spend at least the first
two million having a good time and buying things I have always
wanted. I'd definitely spend a lot of time travelling.

Use your head! If you spent money like that, you’d soon have
spent all your winnings!

You are so boring! If you were in his shoes, you'd just put
money in the bank.

That’s right. I'm sure I'd eventually start spending some money,
but Pd be very careful to make that money last for the rest of my
life.

What use would that be, if you didn’t have any fun?

Oh, I'd have fun. Pd just be careful about how much fun P’d
have.

I can’t believe you!
Well you know the saying ‘different strokes for different folks’!

A job interview

Good morning Ms Brandies, please have a seat.
| 82 Spoken English |
Good morning, it’s a pleasure to meet you.

Could you tell me who you work for at the moment?

I work for Frank and Banowitz importers.

How long have you worked for them?

I’ve been working for Frank and Banowitz for the past three
years.

And how long have your been working in the accounting de-
partment?

Ive been in the accounting department for the past six months.

You know this job requires a lot of travel. Have you done much
travelling for business?

Yes, the job I had before Frank and Banowitz required me to
travel monthly.

And why did you leave that position?
I was offered a more interesting position at Frank and Banowitz.
Have you had any experience in sales?

Yes, Pve spent a few years working part-time as an advertising
consultant for schools offering summer language courses.

That’s interesting. How successful have you been?

The schools I’ve worked for have all had increased registra-
tions as a result of my collaboration.

Very interesting...

A COnveRSATION between Eliza and a younG WOMAN

Young woman: Men are all alike.

Eliza: In what way?

Young woman: They're always bugging us about something spe-
cific or other.

Eliza: Can you think of a specific example?

Young woman: Well, my boyfriend made me come here.

Eliza: Your boyfriend made you come here?

Young woman: He says I’m depressed much of the time.

Eliza: I am sorry to hear you are depressed.

Young woman: Irs true. Pm unhappy.

Eliza: Do you think coming here will help you not to be unhappy?
Young woman: I need some help that much seems certain.
Eliza: What would it mean to you if you got some help?

Young woman: Perhaps I could learn to get along with my mother.
Eliza: Tell me more about your family.

Young woman: My mother takes care of me.

Eliza: Who else in your family takes care of you?

Young woman: My father.

Eliza: Your father.

Young woman: You are like my father in some ways.

Eliza: What resemblance do you see?

Young woman: You are not very aggressive but I think you don’t
want me to notice that.

Eliza: What makes you think I am not very aggressive?
Young woman: You don’t argue with me.

Eliza: Why do you think I don’t argue with you?
Young woman: You are afraid of me.

Eliza: Does it please you to believe I am afraid of you?
| Spoken English |
Young woman: My father is afraid of everybody.

Eliza: What else comes to mind when you think of your father?
Young woman: Bullies.

Eliza: Docs that have anything to do with the fact that your boy-
friend made you come here?

AN interview with Parry

How are you today?

OK.

What is your name?

My name is Frank Smith.
How old are you?

Twenty-eight.

Are you married?

No.

What sort of work do you do?
I work in the Post Office.
Why are you in the hospital?
1 shouldn’t be here.

Who brought you here?
The police.

What trouble did you have with the police?
Cops don’t do their jobs.
What do they do instead?

Cops arrest the wrong people.
| Conversation 85 |

They arrest the right ones sometimes.
The law should get those Italian crooks.
Are you Italian?

My background is British, but I was born in this country.
Do you know any Italian crooks?

I try to avoid the underworld.

Are you afraid of the underworld?

The mafia are the worst gangsters.
Are you connected with the mafia?
You know, they know me.

How do they know you?

They spy on me.

Why do they?

They want to get false evidence to frame me.
What do they have against you?

They are out to get me.

What for?

I have incriminating evidence against the mafia.
Are you sure of all this?

You don’t believe me?

Borrowing

S: Dad. Can J borrow the car tomorrow?
B; Why do you want to borrow the car?
8: Pm going to the beach with Tony,
Isrl |

F: Last time you borrowed it you had an accident and dented the
door.

S: I promise Dll drive carefully this time.
F; And the petrol tank was almost empty.
S: Pil fill ic up before I get home.

F: Well, OK then, provided you're home by 8. I’m going out to-
morrow evening and I need the car.

S: Great. Thanks dad, I'll be home by 7:30.

Clothes shop

: May I help you?

: Yes, ’'m looking for a pair of trousers.
: What colour would you like?

Black.

: And what size are you?

Pm not sure. Can you measure me?
[measures customer| You're 34” waist. How about these?
What material are they?
Its morning = It is morning
It’s time to get up = It is time to get up
It’s dark outside = It is dark outside
It’s going to be a rainy day = It is going to be a rainy day
What's the matter? = What is the matter?
What’s the time? = What is the time?
What's for breakfast? = What is for breakfast?
Who’s there? = Who is there?
Who's that? = Who is that?
Who's calling? = Who is calling?
This book is a comprehensive English conversation, comprehension, and grammar text
all rolled into one, suitable for students who are able to write decently and would like to work on
English pronunciation and speaking skills. Students can both read and listen to English using the
accompanying CD recording of every written dialogue. After coach conversation, there are
exercises for students to test their understanding of what was said in each conversation, as well
as exercises for students to practice using key phrases and using correct grammar. There are a
variety of different conversational topics included in this book that are designed to help prepare
students for different situations they may encounter in daily life where they will interact with
English speaking people, whether it be in school, at work, or even at a doctor’s office. These
conversations will provide students with more exposure to the American culture because they
reflect aspects of the American life. One thing to note is that although abbreviations of words
are commonly used in conversations, this book will not use abbreviations in order to show
students the proper tenses that should be used in sentences. Abbreviations are only used when it
is most necessary to avoid awkwardness in the sentence.

A great deal of thought and effort was put into the production of this book and we are
proud to present it in the hope that it will aid students in their quest to gain proficiency in
English, both written and spoken. From the bottom of our hearts, we wish each and every one of
our readers the best of luck in all their endeavours and remember, practice is key!
ID

Ill

Contents

DAILY LIFE

1 Talking About The Weather
2 An Afternoon In The Kitchen
3 Telephone Conversation
4 An Afternoon In The Park
5 Weekend Plans

6 Winter Break Plans

7 A Visit To The Doctor’s Office
8 Going To The Market
9 I Need Help!

10 Looking For An Apartment
11 Formal Conversation
PROFESSIONAL LIFE

12 Looking For A Job

13 Job Interview

14 First Day At Work

15 On The Production Floor
16 Changing A Customer’s Order
17 Promotion

18 Meeting People
ACADEMIC LIFE

19 Applying To College

20 Giving A Speech

21 Studying For A Test

22 Book Conversation

23 Graduation

HOLIDAYS

24 Halloween

25 Thanksgiving

21

New Year’s Eve
SECTION I

DAILY LIFE
 

 

ONE
TALKING ABOUT THE WEATHER

 

Situation 4an and Mary talk while walking to their next class.
Ann Oh, it feels so cold this morning.

Mary It sure is. Early this morning my car’s windshield was covered with frost. I had to spray it
with water before I could head to school.

Ann Who would have thought it could be this cold in early December, especially in California.

Mary I know. The temperature was 35 degrees Fahrenheit when I woke up this morning. I was
freezing as soon as I got out of bed. The cold weather just hit me by surprise.

Ann I cannot remember when it was this cold in early December.
Mary Brace yourself for the rain this afternoon. Cold and wet, Yuck!
Ann It is going to rain this afternoon?

Mary Not only this afternoon, but also the rest of the week.

Ann Oh, it is going to be miserable. I have a full class schedule today and tomorrow. To walk
from class to class, I will have to juggle my books and my umbrella trying not to get wet.

Mary You carry too many books. Why don’t you leave some of them in your locker?

Ann My locker is a long way from my English classes. This is the reason why I carry all my
books with me. Is it going to rain hard or just drizzle?

Mary The news said that tt would start to drizzle around noon, and then it would rain really
hard by three o’clock.

Ann No hope for better weather this week?

Mary There is a slim chance of sunshine by Saturday. However, it will be foggy, windy, and
rainy before the sun comes out this weekend.

Ann I am glad that it rains even though I do not like rainy weather. We have a very dry season
so far this year.

Mary Yes, I can hardly remember when it rained last time. Well, as long as there is no thunder
or lightning, I can bear it.

Ann We rarely have thunder or lightning in California.

 
Mary We are very lucky that California has one of the best weather conditions in America.
When it is hot, it is not humid; when it rains, there is no thunder or lightning, and the cold
weather during the winter season is quite mild compared to the weather of the other states.
Ann Yes, we are lucky. However, sometimes when I look at the Christmas pictures, I just wish
we had some snow. It looks so pretty when everything is covered by a blanket of pure white
snow.

Mary Living in southern California all my life, I have never seen snow. I would not mind
playing in the snow once in a while.

Ann Yes, it would be fun to make a snowman or go skiing.

Mary We have never seen snow; we have never made a snowman, and we have never gone
skiing. We better do something about this.

Ann May be we should plan a trip to Aspen, Colorado during winter break. I heard that the
skiing season is fantastic up there.

Mary I don’t think we can afford a trip to Aspen. It is very expensive up there.

Ann I am just wishing. I know what I will be doing during winter break. I will be working very
hard to save money for a new car.

Mary With the cars that we drive, it is better that we live in a place where there is no snow.

Ann You are right, we are better off with no snow. Ok, I have class right now; see you later in
the library.

Mary See you later.

 
 

EXERCISES

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of Mary,
and another the role of Ann.

2 Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

Was it cold last night?  Yes, it was.

Was it hot yesterday?  No, it was not.

Was it very windy when you went to the store?  No, it was quite nice.

What did the news say?  The news said that it would rain.

How will it be during the weekend?  It will be foggy, windy, and rainy.

Is it humid in California?  No, it is never humid in California.

Is it going to be warm tonight?  No, it will be chilly tonight.

How will it be tomorrow?  There is a slight chance of rain
tomorrow.

Is it going to be sunny tomorrow?  No, it will be hazy tomorrow.

How was the weather in Denver last week?  It was cloudy last week.

3 Comprehension test

a How was the weather this morning?

b What happened to Mary’s car?

c What did Mary do to her car?

d What was the temperature when Mary woke up?

e How will it be in the afternoon?

f How long will it be raining?

g How is the weather until the weekend?

h Why will it be difficult for Ann when it rains this afternoon?
i When will it start raining really hard?

J How will it be during the coming weekend?

k What kind of season did they have so far this year?

1 Why is the weather in California better than the weather in the other states?
m What is Ann wishing for?

n Why does Ann suggest a trip to Aspen?

0 Can they afford a trip to Aspen?

4 Discussion
a What kinds of weather do you have in your country?
b Describe a perfect weather.
c Where would you want to live 1f you have a choice?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW

NOUNS

1 Nouns can be classified as either common nouns or proper nouns

A Common nouns are used to refer to people, animals, things and places in general.

Student
Cat
Umbrella
Beach

Common nouns can be singular or plural. Singular nouns are used when there is one
person, one animal or one thing.

One week

An umbrella

Plural nouns are used when more than one person, more than one thing or more than one
place are mentioned. To form a plural noun, simply add -s to the end of the word.

Two weeks

Many umbrellas

Exceptions

1 For nouns that end with -ch, -s, -sh, -x and -z; add -es to form plural nouns.
Peach, peaches

Bus, buses

2 For nouns that end with a consonant followed by -y, change -y to -i, and then add -es.
Body, bodies
Party, parties

3 For nouns that end with a vowel followed by -y, add -s to form plural nouns.
Toy, toys
Boy, boys

4 For nouns that end with -fe or - f change - fto -v, and then add -es.
Life, lives
Leaf, leaves

Note
Some nouns do not follow this rule. Example roof roofs; chief, chiefs.

5 For nouns that end with -o preceded by a vowel, simply add -s. However, if -o is
preceded by a consonant, add -es.
Patio, patios
Potato, potatoes

Note
Some nouns do not follow this rule. Example piano, pianos; photo, photos.

6 Some nouns completely change when they become plural.
Child, children

Mouse, mice

Foot, feet.

7 Some nouns are singular even though they end in -s.
The news is very depressing.
Mathematics is not easy to understand sometimes.

8 Some nouns are always plural.
My pants are very comfortable.
The scissors are very sharp

9 Some nouns are the same in singular and plural form.
Fish, fish
Equipment, equipment

10 Some nouns come from adjectives, and are considered plural nouns. They are always
preceded by the.

The rich have many expensive hobbies.

Sometimes the young have a lot of wild ideas.

Proper nouns are used to name specific persons, things or places, and are always
capitalized. Some examples are
Mary
Aspen
California

Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

Did you see a boy wandering around here?  No, I saw four boys wandering around

here.
How many peaches did you buy?  I just bought one peach.
Are you talking about Jane and John’s parties?  No, I am just talking about

John’s party?

Are these your children?  No, that is my child.
Did you hurt both feet?  No, I only hurt my left foot.
Do you want an apple for lunch?  No, I want two apples.
Who is living in this neighborhood?  Only the rich live in this neighborhood.
Who needs a lot of medical care?  The old need a lot of medical care.
Who is that girl in the blue dress?
Where are we?

Oh that is Suzanne.
We are at San Pedro beach.

TWO
AN AFTERNOON IN THE KITCHEN

 

Situation Mrs. Anderson is baking cakes when her daughter Debbie gets home from school.
Debbie Mom, I am home.
Mrs. Anderson How was school? How did you do on the test?

Debbie School was OK, and I did great on the test. Mom, I was so worried about that test , but
now I feel great. What a relief!

Mrs. Anderson I am glad to hear that. You have been studying so hard the past few weeks.
Now, you can relax and enjoy life.

Debbie What are you cooking? It smells so good.
Mrs. Anderson I am baking cakes. This is your favorite carrot cake.
Debbie It looks really yummy. And I see muffins over there too. You were busy, weren’t you?

Mrs. Anderson Yes. Jeff has to take something to school tomorrow. So, those muffins are for
him. Don’t touch them.

Debbie Can I have a piece of carrot cake? I want to enjoy life right now.

Mrs. Anderson You don’t want to wait until after dinner?

Debbie It looks inviting, and I bet it is delicious. No, I don’t want to wait. Can I, mom?
Mrs. Anderson OK, go ahead.

Debbie Did you see the new recipe that was posted on Today Cooking’s website? I believe it
was called Scrumptious Pie.

Mrs. Anderson No, I did not. But I want to try that recipe. Your dad loves pie.
Debbie So do I.
Mrs. Anderson So does Jeff. Our whole family is crazy about pie.

Debbie When do you want to try the new recipe? I want to learn too. Should we bake a cherry
pie or an apple pie?

11

 
Mrs. Anderson Since this is the cherry season, let’s make a cherry pie. Tomorrow, I will get
some cherries at the supermarket, and we can start baking in the afternoon when you get home
from school.

Debbie I need to finish a science project, and I will not get home until 330. Will it be too late to
start baking, mom? If it is, you can start without me.

Mrs. Anderson 330 PM is fine. I will prepare dinner early, and then I will have everything
ready for our baking session before you get home.

Debbie Make sure that we still have enough sugar and eggs, mom. It seems like you were using
a lot of sugar and eggs baking the cakes and muffins today.

Mrs. Anderson Don’t worry. We still have plenty of sugar and a lot of eggs, enough to make at
least ten pies.

Debbie Ten pies, huh? Ten sounds like a good number, but let’s not overdo it. Let’s make nine
and a half pies instead.

Mrs. Anderson OK, we will make nine and a half pies tomorrow. No more, no less.

Debbie It is a deal.

Mrs. Anderson Enough about baking pies. I need to start working on today’s dinner. It is three
o’clock already. Your dad and Jeff will be home soon. I am sure they will be very hungry and
will want dinner right away.

Debbie What do we have for dinner tonight?

Mrs. Anderson I will make roast beef and cream of mushroom soup.

Debbie It has been a long time since you made cream of mushroom soup. Do you need any
help, mom?

Mrs. Anderson No, go do your homework and leave the cooking to me.

Debbie Thanks, mom. Call me whenever dinner is ready. I do not want to be late for roast beef,
cream of mushroom soup, carrot cake and muffins.

Mrs. Anderson The muffins are for Jeff. Do not touch them!

Debbie I know, mom. Just kidding.

12
I feel great

What a relief!

Enjoy life

It is a piece of cake

It looks inviting

It is delicious

Go ahead!

So do I 

Be crazy about something 

In the afternoon

Get home from school 

Don’t worry! 

No more, no less 

It is a deal

It has been a long time since

Do you need any help? 
 

EXERCISES
1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.
Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.
Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of Mrs.

Anderson, and another the role of Debbie.

2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

What are you doing?

What is she cooking?

What is your plan after work?

Is the turkey ready?

How do you like your steak? Rare, medium
or well done?

What happened to the ribs?

How should I bake the cherry pic?
How is my chicken soup?

How is my fish?

How is my stew?

Do you like my muffins?

What should I put in my stew?

3 Comprehension test


 1am preparing breakfast.

She is cooking steak.

I plan to bake a cake for Mary.
No, it is not done yet.

Well done, please.

I overcooked them, and they were
burned.

Bake it at 350 degrees for 30 minutes.

It is very tasty.

It tastes very good.

Not too sweet, not too salty. Just perfect.
I love them.

A lot of ingredients besides salt.

13
a Why is Debbie feeling great?

b What kind of cake does Debbie like?

c Why did Mrs. Anderson bake muffins?

d Why does Debbie want a piece of cake now?

e What is the name of the new recipe that Debbie saw on Today Cooking’s website?
f Why does Mrs. Anderson want to bake a cherry pic?
g When will Debbie get home tomorrow? Why?

h How many pies will they bake tomorrow?

i What will Jeff want when he gets home?

J What will Mrs. Anderson cook for dinner?

k Why doesn’t Debbie want to be late for dinner?

4 Discussion

a Should boys learn how to cook?

c What is the most popular cake or food in your country?
d What is your favorite baking recipe?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW
NOUNS
Common nouns can be classified as either count or noncount nouns.
1 Count nouns
Count nouns refer to people, animals, things or places that can be counted. Count nouns can be
singular or plural and are generally preceded by words indicating quantity or number (one, four,
many, several, a few, every, a lot of or by an article (a, an, the.
An afternoon
A science project
The new recipe
Ten pies

A and an are indefinite articles and do not point to any person, animal, thing or place in
particular.

I drove by a gas station before I got home yesterday.

I saw a blue 1950 Corvette on my way to work.

A and an always precede a singular noun. Use the indefinite article a before words which start
with a consonant, a sounded / (example a horse or a long u (example a utensil. Use an before
words which start with a vowel, except long wu, and before words beginning with a silent h
(example an hour

A cherry pie

A house

An apple pie

An urgent message

The is a definite article and is used to indicate a specific person, animal, thing or place. The can
precede singular or plural nouns.

14
Did you see the new recipe that was posted on Today Cooking'‘s website?
I looked at the new houses on Bolsa Street yesterday.

 

Note

The is not used with nouns indicating people, animals or things in general.
Most of the times, cats do not like dogs. (No the because we are talking about cats and dogs
in general
I hate to listen to distressing news. (No the because we are talking about distressing news in
general

2 Noncount Nouns

Noncount nouns refer to anything that cannot be counted such as
a Substances water, air, sugar
b Abstractions luck, bravery, beauty
c Fields of study or sports chemistry, baseball

Noncount nouns are usually preceded by words such as some, much, a little, and are always
expressed in the singular form with a few exceptions.

You were using a lot of sugar (vs. you were using a lot of eggs

She needs some encouragement before taking the test.

Note
Noncount nouns that refer to abstractions, sports, fields of study usually are not preceded by an
article or any other word.

He watches baseball every weekend.

I do not like physics

The company expects loyalty from its employees.

Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

 

Does your son like soccer?  No, my son likes basketball.

Can you speak English?  Ican speak excellent English.

Would you like some coffee?  Yes, please.

How much salt should I put in the soup?  Just a little bit.

How many oranges did you buy?  Just a few.

How much water do you need?  Not too much.

How many cakes did you bake?  Not too many.

What do the Milkman high school’s students  They want to play football.

want for sport?

How do wild animals survive during the winter?  With great difficulties.

How are the houses on Bolsa Street?  They are very small.

How long does it take you to clean a house?  On an average, it takes me an hour to
clean a house.

What did you put in your soup?  I put in a little bit of salt and a lot of

tomatoes.

15
 

 

THREE
TELEPHONE CONVERSATION

 

Situation Lisa is having some problems with her exercise bike, and she is calling Sport Center
to have it repaired.

Nancy Thank you for calling Sports Centre. May I help you?

Lis I bought an exercise bike from your store last year, and I am having problems with it. I
need to have it repaired.

Nancy Let me connect you to the Service department. One moment please.

Karen Service department, this is Karen. How can I help you?

Lis I bought an exercise bike from Sports Centre last year and it needs to be repaired.
Karen What seems to be the problem?

Lis I am not very sure, but I think there is a problem with the bike’s computer console because
the LCD screen does not display the different features.

Karen Nothing was on when you pushed the Start button?
Lis No, nothing.

Karen What is your bike model?

Lis It is a 126 Upright Ford Bike.

Karen I can send a technician out to take a look at your bike. It will cost $75.00 for labor. Also,
if we have to replace any parts, that will be extra.

Lis That is expensive. Isn’t the repair cost covered by warranty?
Karen When exactly did you purchase your bike?
Lis About fifteen months ago.

Karen I am sorry. The standard warranty only covers a year. Did you buy extra warranty
coverage at the time of purchase?

Lis No, I did not. Are there any other options besides paying $75.00 for repair labor?

Karen No, I am afraid not.

16

 
Lis I guess I just have to pay for the repair. When can you send a technician?

Karen | have next Thursday November the twenty third at 200PM available. Otherwise, the
next date has to be December the eighth at 1000AM.

Lis I take this coming Thursday. Will you send out a reminder?

Karen Somebody will give you a call the evening before to confirm the appointment.

Lis Will the technician accept credit card payment?

Karen Yes, he will. By the way, you can buy the extra warranty coverage now if you want to.
Lis How much does it cost?

Karen Fifty dollars for one-year warranty, seventy-five dollars for two-years, and a hundred
dollars for three-years.

Lis Does it cover both labor and materials?

Karen It covers everything. Do you want to sign up for it?

Lis Oh, I do not know.

Karen It will be good for you. We will send a technician any times the bike needs services. It
does not matter how many times you call us ina year. Also, if we cannot fix the problem, we
will provide you with a new exercise bike.

Lis OK, I want to sign up for the two-year warranty program.

Karen I think it is a good investment. Are you going to pay by credit card now or do you want
me to send you a bill?

Lis Send me a bill, please.

Karen One last thing before I let you go, I need your address please.
Lis 995 Silver Lake Street in Long Beach.

Karen OK, it is all set. Is there anything else I can help you with today?
Lis No. Thank you for your help.

Karen You are welcome. Have a nice day!

 

EXERCISES

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of Nancy
and Karen, and another the role of Lisa.

2 Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions or greetings and answers. Ask
them to come up with similar questions or greetings and answers.

G Hello, this is Natalie.  Hi, Natalie. This is Mary from the
Accounting department.

G Good morning. How may I help you?  Good morning, I have misplaced my
hotel room key.

G Hi, this is Jennifer.  Hi Jennifer, thank you for returning my
call.

May I speak to John please?  One moment. Let me connect you.

G I was put on hold for a long time. I am  I am so sorry. Let me connect you to

still waiting for John. John right now.

Who is calling, please?  This is Tom Burt.

G I need to speak to Richard Anderson.  Let me transfer you. Please hold.

G Sorry, Richard is in the field at the moment.  Could you take a message?

G Sorry, Richard is not available at the moment.  Can] leave a message for Richard then?

Richard is still on the line. Do you still  Yes, I will hold.

18
wish to hold?
G Thank you for holding. How may [help you?  I need some information on one of
your products.
May I have your account number?  Excuse me, but what account number?
For verification, may I have your home address?  1825 Palo Verde, Costa Mesa, Denver.

3 Comprehension test

a Why is Lisa calling Sports Center?

b Is Nancy able to help Lisa?

c What kind of problem does Lisa have with her exercise bike?

d What happened when Lisa pushed the Start button?

e What is the model of Lisa’s bike?

f How much does it cost to have the bike repaired?

g What will happen if the technician has to replace any parts?

h Why is the bike no longer covered by the warranty policy?

i When can Sports Center send a technician to Lisa’s house?

J What does Sports Center do to remind people of their appointment?
k What types of payments does Sports Center accept?

1 What types of costs does the extra warranty policy cover?

m How often can Lisa call for services under the extra warranty policy?

4 Discussion

a Should we buy extra warranty when we purchase merchandises? Why? Why not?
b What happened when things you bought break down?

c What do you do for exercise?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW
NOUNS
Roles of nouns
Nouns can perform a variety of roles such as
A Subject of a verb
My husband uses the bike every day.
The LCD screen does not display the different features.

B Object of a verb
I want a bike.
My husband uses the bike every day.

C Modifier of a verb

It feels cold this morning.
I will leave tomorrow.

He jogs today.

D Modifier of a noun

19
I bought an exercise bike from your store.
! love apple juice.

 

Possessives
When we want to indicate that a person, animal, thing or place belongs to another person,
animal, thing or place, we can use an apostrophe (* and —s to express ownership.

The bike’s computer console (= the computer console of the bike

The car’s windshield (= the windshield of the car

Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

Who uses the bike everyday?  My husband uses the bike everyday.
What is on that table?  A bouquet of flowers is on the table.
What did you see on your way home?  I saw a beautiful sports car.

What did you do yesterday?  I painted my house yesterday.

When will he return?  He will return tomorrow.

When can I see her?  You can see her today.

Which key did you loose?  Ilost my car key.

What kind of cake did you bake?  Ibaked a carrot cake.

Whose son was playing in my backyard?  That was Karen’s son.

Whose house was put on the market?  It was my cousin’s house.

20
 

 

FOUR
AN AFTERNOON AT THE PARK

 

Situation Every year, Rooster Run, a country music band holds a concert at Silverado park.
Alex and his two friends are heading toward the park to attend the concert.

Alex Hey Jane, John, there is a musical concert in the park. You want to go see the band play?
Jane I am done with my homework; I can go.

John Me too. Let’s go.

Jane Hey, look at that sport car. Isn’t it neat?

Alex That is exactly the kind of car that I want once I get a good joI bet it is very fast. I want
mine to be red though.

Jane Keep on dreaming, Alex. That car costs a fortune.

Alex It does not hurt to set high expectations. Maybe one day I will make a lot of money, and I
might surprise you.

John Talking about cars, why is the traffic so heavy today?

Alex People are probably heading toward the park for the concert. The band does play pretty
good music.

Jane Yes, it does. For the last three years, I have never missed the concert. I have always
arranged my schedule so that I could attend the event once the band was in town.

John How long ago did the band start playing at our park?

Jane I think it started this tradition five years ago before you moved into our neighborhood.
Every year it always arrives the first week of June to play for the whole week.

Alex You will enjoy this evening, John. There will be good Country music, a lot of stomping
around, and definitely a lot of hollering.

John It sounds like fun.

Jane My favorite is Rock and Roll music; however, I have to say that country melodies can be
quite enticing. I can listen to them all day long.

Alex John, what kind of music do you like?

John Oh, I like all kinds of music as long as it is not Hard Rock.

21

 
Jane Wow, look at the number of people who have already shown up for the concert. Good
thing that we are here already.

Alex Jane, where do you want to sit? In the shade or in the sun?

Jane In the shade, please. I have been in the sun too much lately.

John There is a food stand over there. Do you two want anything?

Jane Nothing for me, thanks. I already have my bottle of water.

Alex I want a bag of chips and a sodAre you sure you do not want any chips, Jane?

Jane I am quite sure. Besides, my mother is cooking a good steak dinner, and I want to save my
appetite.

Alex Jane, you are so lucky to have such a good cook for a mother. John, you have to taste her
cream cakes one of these days. You cannot find better cream cakes anywhere in this town.

Jane I know we will have cream cake for dessert this evening. I will save you a piece if you
want, John.

John I always love cake, so please save me a piece. Thanks, Jane.
Jane How about you, Alex? A piece of cake for you too?
Alex You know I will say ves to a piece of your mother’s cream cake any day.

Jane OK, I will save two pieces of cream cake for both of you tonight. We can meet at the
cafeteria at lunch time tomorrow and I will give them to you.

John Alex, you better get your chips and soda now if you still want them. It is almost 300PM,
and the concert is about to start.

Alex For the last time, do you guys want anything?
Jane I am sure I do not want anything, Alex. I am doing fine.
John Me neither, Alex.

Alex OK, save me a seat. I will be right back.

 

EXERCISES

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of three students. Have one student plays the role of Alex,
another the role of Jane and another the role of John.

2 Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

Did you see that beautiful car?  Yes, I sure did.
Were there a lot of people at the park?  No, there were only a few.
What can people do at the park?  They can ride a bike, jog, or skate.
What kinds of attractions do they have  A fishing contest and a marathon.
at the park this coming Saturday?
Do you want to have your birthday party  Yes, if you do not mind.
at the park this year?
Do you like to go to the park?  I love to go to the park.
Did you buy a ticket for ABA’s annual concert?  No, it was sold out.
Was Steve Malone’s new CD on the Top  Yes, his new CD was on the Top Ten
Ten list? list for two weeks.
Who will conduct the Christmas symphony?  This year Ron will conduct the
Christmas symphony.
Who will you vote for Best Performer?  I will definitely vote for Tom Nelson.
Do you like classical music?  Yes, Ido.
Who will play at the Pond this year?  Steve Malone will hold a concert there
this year.

3 Comprehension test
a Why are Jane, John and Alex heading toward the park?

23
b What kind of car does Alex want to own?

c How is the traffic?

d When did the band start playing in Jane’s town?

e When does the band show up every year?

f What kind of music does the band play?

g What will happen when the band plays?

h What is John’s favorite music?

i What else can people do at the park besides listening to the music?
J Why doesn’t Jane want anything from the food stand?

k Is Jane’s mother a bad cook?

1 When and where will Jane give the pieces of cake to John and Alex?

4 Discussion

a What kind of entertainment should your town have every year?
b What kind of music do you like? Why?

c What is the use of a park? Why should we have parks?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW

PRONOUNS

Pronouns are words that take the place of nouns without changing the meaning of the sentence
and may play the same roles as nouns in the sentence. Pronouns are handy because they
eliminate the need to repeat words. Like nouns, pronouns can be either singular or plural.

When a pronoun replaces a word or a group of words, the word or group of words being replaced
is called an antecedent. If the pronoun’s antecedent is singular, the pronoun must be singular. If
the pronoun’s antecedent is plural, the pronoun must be plural.

Look at that sport car. Isn’t it neat?

Country melodies can be quite enticing. I can listen to them all day long.

There are many types of pronouns, and personal pronouns are one of the most commonly used
pronouns.

Personal Pronouns

Personal pronouns are used to replace a noun that refers to a person, animal or thing. There are

many types of personal pronouns and their uses depend on the function they play in the sentence.
1 The subjective case

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Singular | Plural
First person I We
(The person who is speaking
Second person You You
(The person who is spoken to
Third person He They
(masculine (The person who is spoken of
Third person She They

 

24
 

(feminine (The person who is spoken of

 

Third person

 

(neutral (The thing which is spoken of

It

 

 

They

 

 

The subjective case is used to indicate the person, animal or thing that performs the action or

is the subject of a verb.

L will give the piece of cake to Alex tomorrow.

You will enjoy this evening.

2 The objective case

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Singular | Plural
First person Me Us
Second person You You
Third person (masculine _| Him Them
Third person (feminine Her Them
Third person (neutral It Them

 

 

 

The objective case is used when the person or thing is the object of a verb and is not the one

performing the action.

I might surprise her showing up with my new sports car.

Country melodies can be quite enticing. I can listen to them all day long.

3 The possessive case

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Singular Plural
First person My/Mine Our/Ours
Second person Your/Yours | Your/Yours
Third person (masculine | His/His Their/Theirs
Third person (feminine Her/Hers Their/Theirs
Third person (neutral Its/Its Their/Theirs

 

 

The possessive case is used to express possession.
You moved into our neighborhood.
I love that sports car. I want mine to be red though.

4 The reflexive case

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Singular Plural
First person Myself Ourselves
Second person Yourself Yourselves
Third person (masculine | Himself Themselves
Third person (feminine Herself Themselves
Third person (neutral Itself Themselves

 

 

25
The reflexive case is used when the subject and the object of the sentence are the same
person/thing. Reflexive pronouns usually are placed after the verb.

Iwill do it myself
She will drive herself to school.

Note

Reflexive pronouns can be placed right next to a noun or pronoun before the verb to

emphasize the noun or pronoun.
I myself will pick you up at the airport.

Mary herself must clean up the mess in the kitchen.

Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following
up with similar questions and answers.

Who took the blue shirt to the cleaner? A
How did John and Jane feel after the trip?

Did John and Jane leave for work yet?

Who will drive both of you to school?

Did you talk to John and Jane after school?

Did you feed your daughter yet?

Is that Janet’s car?

Did you buy Rick and Jessica’s boat?

Did Mary help you with your homework?
Who painted their house?

Should I ask for Jason’s help?

A
A
A
A
A
Whose books are those? 
A
A
A
A
A

questions and answers. Ask them to come

 I took the blue shirt to the cleaner.

 They felt sick.

 They already left for work.

 John will drive us to school.

 I talked to them at 3 o’clock.

 I fed her two hours ago.

Those books are mine.

 Yes, that is her car.

 No. It is still theirs.

 No, I did them by myself.

 They painted the house themselves.
 No, you should clean the house by

yourself.

 

26
 

 

FIVE
WEEKEND PLANS

 

Situation Laurie, Christie, and Sarah are making plans for the coming weekend.
Laurie So, what are your plans for this weekend?
Christie I don’t know. Do you want to get together or something?

Sarah How about going to see a movie? Cinemax 26 on Carson Boulevard is showing
Enchanted.

Laurie That sounds like a good ideMaybe we should go out to cat beforehand.
Sarah It is fine with me. Where do you want to meet?
Christie Let’s meet at Summer Pizza House. I have not gone there for a long time.

Laurie Good idea again. I heard they just came up with a new pizzIt should be good because
Summer Pizza House always has the best pizza in town.

Sarah When should we meet?
Christie Well, the movie is shown at 200PM, 400PM, 600PM and 800PM.

Laurie Why don’t we go to the 200PM show? We can meet at Summer Pizza House at noon.
That will give us plenty of time to enjoy our pizza.

Sarah My cousin Karen is in town. Can I bring her along? I hate to leave her home alone.

Christie Karen is in town? Yes, bring her along. Laurie, you remember Karen? We met her at
Sara’s high school graduation party two years ago.

Laurie I do not quite remember her. What does she look like?

Sarah She has blond hair, she is kind of slender, and she is about your height.
Laurie She wears eyeglasses, right?

Sarah Yes, and she was playing the piano off and on during the party.

Laurie I remember her now. Yes, do bring her along SarShe is such a nice person, and funny
too.

Sarah She will be happy to meet both of you again.

27

 
Christie What is she doing these days?

Sarah She graduated last June, and she will start her teaching career next week when the new
school term begins.

Laurie What grade is she going to teach?

Sarah She will teach kindergarten. She loves working with kids, and she always has such a
good rapport with them.

Christie Kindergarten? She must be a very patient person. I always think kindergarten is the
most difficult class to teach. Most of the kids have never been to school, and they have never
been away from mommy for long.

Sarah I think Karen will do fine. She knows how to handle young children.

Laurie I think the first few weeks will be tough. However, once the routine is set, it should not
be too difficult to teach kindergarten.

Christie You are right. The kids might even look forward to going to school since they have so
many friends to play with.

Sarah There are so many new things for them to do at school too. They do a lot of crafts in
kindergarten. I am always amazed by the things kindergarten teachers do.

Laurie Yes, I have seen my niece come home with so many neat stuff.

Christie Maybe we can ask Karen to show us some of the things that we can do for this
Halloween.

Laurie Maybe we can stop by the craft store after the movie. What do you think, Sara?

Sarah I will talk to her. I think she will like that. It will help her with school projects when
Halloween comes.

Christie Michael’s is a good store for crafts. It always carries a variety of things, and you can
find almost anything there.

Laurie There is a Michaels store not far away from Cinemax 26. I believe it is just around the
corner, on Pioneer Avenue. We can even walk over there.

Sarah So, we plan to meet for pizza at noon, go to the movies at two, and shop at Michael’s
afterward. Right?

Laurie and Christie Yes.

 

EXERCISES
1 Conversation Practice
Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.
Step 3 Divide your class into groups of three students. Have one student plays the role of
Christie, another the role of Sara, and another the role of Laurie.

2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

What are you going to do this weekend?
What do you plan to see?

Which theater are you going to?

Which show are you going to?

How much are ticket prices these days?

Do they offer discounts to students?
What is Karen doing these days?

What subject does she teach?

What grade does she teach?

Does she enjoy her work?

Does she have the summer off?

PPrPrrrr PrPrrPy

 1am going to the movies this weekend.

 I am going to see Spider Man.

 Tam going to the one in Long Beach.

 I plan to go to the 200PM show.

 Six dollars for shows before 500PM,
and eight dollars for after five.

 Tam afraid not.

 She is a teacher at Jefferson high school.

 She teaches English.

 She teaches twelfth grade students.

 She really enjoys being a teacher.

 Yes, she does. She plans to travel during
the summer.

29
3 Comprehension test

a Does Christie have a plan for this weekend?

b Where do Sara, Christie, and Laurie want to go for movies?
c What do they want to do before going to the movies?

d Why do they want to eat at Summer Pizza House?

e What is Summer Pizza House known for?

f What times do they show Enchanted?

g Who is Karen?

h When and where did they meet Karen?

i Describe Karen.

J What was Karen doing when Christie and Laurie met her?
k What kind of work does Karen do?

1 Why is it difficult to teach kindergarten?

m Why do kindergarten kids enjoy school?

n What do kindergarten kids do at school?

0 What will Laurie, Christie and Sara do after watching the movie?

4 Discussion

a What is your usual plan for the weekend?

b What do you want to be after you finish school?

c If you are a teacher, what grade do you want to teach? Why?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW
There are many types of pronouns and their uses depend on the role they play in the sentence.
Besides the personal pronouns, there are

1 Relative pronouns

2 Possessive pronouns

3 Interrogative pronouns

4 Demonstrative pronouns

Relative pronouns

Relative pronouns (who, whom, that, which, what replace the person or thing mentioned earlier
in the sentence and connect a dependent clause to the main clause. As a substitute word, relative
pronouns should correspond to the persons or things that they replace.

Who refers only to people and is used when it is the subject of a verb.
Karen is the girl who was playing the piano off and on during the party two years ago.
John and Tim are the persons who coach our children in baseball.

Whom refers only to people and is used when it is the object of a verb.

The girl whom you talked to last night is Sara’s cousin.

The boy whom you just met at school is considered a genius in physics.
Note

30
Whom is used only in formal writing. Generally who is used instead of whom.

That refers to people, animals or things.
Summer Pizza house is the restaurant that has the best pizza in town.
Karen is the person that wore eyeglasses at the party.

Which only refers to animals or things. Usually, that is used for a specific group of animals or
things while which is used for animals or things in general.

The books that were written by John Grisham sell pretty fast.

Books, which give information, are very useful in life.

What usually refers to things.
I do not know what you want.
He is questioning the meaning of what he heard on the street.

Other less common relative pronouns are whoever, whomever, whatever and whichever. These
pronouns do not refer to a specific person or thing.

Tell the idea to whomever you want.

Take whatever you want.

I don’t care whichever one you choose.

Possessive pronouns
Whose is a possessive pronoun that means belonging to whom.
This is the young girl whose father is a famous movie director.
I just talked to the lady whose house was damaged by the storm yesterday.

Interrogative pronouns
Interrogative pronouns who, whom, whose, which, what are used in asking questions.
What grade is she going to teach?
Who cleaned the house yesterday?
Whom did you call?
Which book is on the Bestseller list?
Whose car is parked in front of my house?

Demonstrative pronouns
Demonstrative pronouns this, these, that, those are used to express the distance of the person or
object from the speaker.

This (singular form and these (plural form express nearness to the speaker.
This is my new car. (The new car is very close to the speaker
These are my children. (The children are standing next to the speaker

That (singular form and those (plural form express a certain distance from the speaker.

Look at that sports car! (The sports car is not close to the speaker.
Those paintings were done by Picasso. (The paintings are not near the speaker

31
Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.
Who is Mrs. Anderson?
Who is Karen?

Which house did you visit?

Which doctor did you choose for your
personal care?
Do you understand what I am saying?

Do you mind if I tell the news to Mary?
Who is that man?

Which ones are your children?

Are the books over there yours?

Whose sandals is he holding?



  bP  Db 

 She is the one who drives the yellow car.

 She is the one who played the piano off
and on during the party.

I visited the house that is on top of the
hill.

I chose the doctor that was referred by

my friend Sally.

I do not understand what you are

talking about.

 You can tell it to whomever you want.

 He is the man whose car was stolen.

 Here, these girls are my children.

 Yes, those are my books.

 Those are Sally’s sandals.

32
 

 

SIX
WINTER BREAK PLANS

 

Situation Mike is discussing plans for Winter break with his friend Brendan while they are
driving home from their basketball game.

Brendan Hey Mike, throw your stuff in the back and ride up front with me.

Mike OK, Brendan. Thank you for giving me a ride home. I did not want to call my parents
because they were at Mimi’s Café for my aunt’s birthday.

Brendan Mimi’s Café? That place has the best burgers in town! The atmosphere is also nice.
Good food and a good setting, what more could you ask for? We should eat there after our next
basketball game.

Mike Yes, that sounds like a good plan. When is our next game by the way?

Brendan | think it is after Winter break, which is a long way off. Do you have any plans set up
for the upcoming vacation?

Mike Well, besides going to basketball practices with you, I will most likely be working.
Brendan Oh, working? Did you get a new job or are you still working at Starbucks?

Mike Well, Starbucks was a good first job for me and I loved the people I worked with.
However, my work schedule was neither convenient nor easy. My manager would schedule me
only during the times when it was most busy, which is in the morning when there is a constant
coffee rush. It was definitely very difficult and a conflict to my class schedule.

Brendan Well, what are you doing now at your new job?

Mike Well, I am an Ardministrative Assistant for a company called Multi-Max. I have done a
little training, but I do not know what the full job entails. From what I have seen, it is mostly
inputting data into the computer and following up on customers’ orders.

Brendan Oh, that sounds pretty easy. When did you start this new job?

Mike I have been with Multi-Max since November 1*. Well what about you? Do you have
any plans for break?

Brendan Not really. I think I am just going to hang out at home and read some books. I am
planning a snowboarding trip though. You should come if you are not too busy working at your
new job.

Mike Oh, that sounds like fun! Who is going and where are you guys going to go

snowboarding?

33

 
Brendan As of right now, my roommates, Jay and Kristian, are planning to go. And, there are
Josh, Alexis, and Ann. We are planning to go to Big Bear. I hear that there are pretty good
conditions for skiing and snowboarding this season up there.

Mike Yes, that is what I heard as well. The whole trip sounds like fun. Where are you guys
staying at? Did you rent out a cabin?

Brendan No, we did not. My cousin actually owns a cabin up there, and he said it is OK for us
to stay at his place for the weekend when I spoke with him last Friday. The cabin is not far away
from the ski slopes and the eateries, so it should be a convenient place.

Mike Would it be OK with your cousin if I come along as well? I am not sure whether I can go;
however, since I am talking to you, I might as well ask now just in case my schedule permits.

Brendan [| am sure that will be fine. He did not tell me there is a limit on the number of people
I could bring, so you are more than welcome to join us.

Mike Awesome! I am so excited! Well, I will check my schedule, and I will give you an
update tomorrow. Hey, that is my house on the comer. Thanks again for the ride, Brendan!

Brendan You are welcome Mike. Have a good night and I will talk to you later about the trip.

 

EXERCISES
1 Conversation Practice
Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

34
Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.
Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of Mike,
and another the role of Brendan.

2 Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

Can you give me a ride home?  Sure, get in.
Can you give me a ride to work?  Certainly, I can.
What are you going to do during Winter break?  I will head home to spend time with
my parents.
Where is home?  Long Beach, California.
Are you going fishing in Long Beach?  I probably will once in a while.
What else can you do in Long Beach?  Ican go to the Aquarium of the Pacific.
Aquarium of the Pacific?  Yes, Aquarium of the Pacific where
you can see more than 12,500 ocean
creatures in 50 exhibits.
Wow, it must be quite an attraction in  Yes, it sure is.
Long Beach.
Can I stay with your parents when I am in  I can not answer your question without
Long Beach, Californitalking to my parents.
Will they say no?  Probably not since you are my friend.

3 Comprehension test

a Why did Mike ask Brendan for a ride?

b What kind of foods does Mimi’s Café offer?

c What will Mike and Brendan do after the next basketball game?
d What will Mike do during Winter break?

e Where is Mike currently working?

f What is Mike’s position at the new company?

g Why did Mike change job?

h What will Brendan do during Winter break?

i Who will go to Big Bear?

j Where will Brendan and his friends stay in Big Bear?
kWhy is it convenient to stay at the cabin?

1 Why is it OK for Mike to stay at the cabin?

4 Discussion

a Do schools have Winter break in your country? Describe your school year.
b What will you do during school break?

c Where do you want to go for vacation?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW
VERBS
Verbs are words that describe the action or state of being in a sentence.

35
My parents were at Mimi's Café.
My work schedule was neither convenient nor easy.
I will talk to you later about the trip.

Characteristic of verbs



2

3

Verbs have three basic forms from which the different tenses are formed.
A Base form this is the original form of the verFor example want, look, play.

B Present participle form this form is created by adding -ing to the base form. For

example wanting, looking, playing. Present participles can be used with different helping

verbs to express certain tenses.

Exceptions

- For verbs that end with -e, drop —e and add —ing. For example hope, hoping; love,
loving.

- For one-syllable verbs containing one vowel and ending with a consonant, add
another consonant before adding —ing. For example stop, stopping; drop, dropping.

- For verbs that end with —ie, change —ie to —y and add —ing. For example die, dying;
lie, lying.

C Past participle form this form is generally created by adding -ed to the base form. For

example wanted, looked, played. Past participles are used with different helping verbs to

express certain tenses.

Exceptions

- For verbs that end with -e, only add -d. For example hope, hoped; love, loved.

- For one-syllable verbs containing one vowel and ending with a consonant, add
another consonant before adding —-ed. For example stop, stopped; drop, dropped.

Some verbs are called auxiliary verbs or helping verbs. These verbs usually accompany
action verbs to show the tense or time of action. They include be, have, do, may, might,
can, could, shall, will.

I have done a little training.

fam planning a snowboarding trip.

Verbs can be classified as transitive or intransitive. A transitive verb needs an object to
complete its meaning while an intransitive verb does not.

Transitive Intransitive
I open the windows. The rooster crows.
John asked his friend to close the door. Lisa walks to school every day.

Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

What is a verb?  It is a word that describes the action or

36
What did you do yesterday?
How is Karen doing lately?
Did you clean your room?
Did Karen look beautiful in her new dress?
How can you form the present participle
of verbs?
Like talking from talk?
What is she doing over there?
What was John doing when it rained yesterday?

How can you form the past participle of verbs?

Like talked from talk?
Who yelled at you yesterday?

Who cooked dinner last night?

  bP SES FEPDD

state of being in a sentence.
 I jogged in the park yesterday.
 She is sick lately.
I have cleaned my room.
She looked very lovely in that new dress.
 Generally, by adding -ing to the base
form.
Yes.
 She is teaching our kids how to paint.
He was sleeping when it rained
yesterday.
 Generally, by adding -ed to the base
form.
 Or yelled from yell.
 Tim yelled at me yesterday when he was
mad.
 My sister cooked dinner last night.

37
 

 

SEVEN
A VISIT TO THE DOCTOR’S OFFICE

 

Situation Laura has not been feeling well lately. Today she goes to see her doctor for a physical
checkup.

Laur Good morning, I have an appointment with Doctor Clark at 830.
Clerk Let me pull your record. In the meantime, please sign-in and have a seat.
Nurse Laura Nicholson.

Laur Here.

Nurse Follow me to Room A please.

Nurse Here we are. What are your reasons for seeing Doctor Clark today?

Laur Well, lately I have been feeling tired, and occasionally I have had really bad headaches
and an upset stomach. On top of that, I have had this persistent cough for the last two weeks.

Nurse When did you start having these symptoms?

Laur I started feeling tired about two months ago; then, a little bit after that the headaches
came. I got the upset stomach long before feeling tired.

Nurse Are you taking any medications?

Laur Only my vitamins.

Nurse What vitamins are you taking?

Laur I am taking a multi-vitamin tablet and extra Vitamin C every day.
Nurse OK, let me take your vital signs.

Laur How am I doing?

Nurse Everything is good—normal blood pressure and no high temperature. Please wait here
for a minute. Doctor Clark will be with you in a moment.

Laur Thank you.
Doctor Good morning, Laura.

Laur Good morning, Doctor.

38

 
Doctor I see here that you started feeling tired two months ago, and then you started having bad
headaches. You also have had an upset stomach and a persistent cough. Did you run a fever too?

Laur No, doctor.

Doctor Let me do a quick physical check up.

Doctor Please take a deep breath, hold your breath, and exhale. Do it again please.
Doctor Were there any changes in your diet or your weight lately?

Laur I ate the usual things, but I lost five pounds recently.

Doctor Did you suffer from insomnia?

Laur Well, it is pretty hard for me to fall asleep when I go to bed. I also woke up many times
during the night.

Doctor Do you drink? Do you smoke?
Laur No.
Doctor How are things at work?

Laur There was a change of ownership three months ago, and I had to work a lot of overtime,
even during the weekend.

Doctor It looks like you have pneumoniOther than that, I do not see any problems. You are
probably under stress from changes at work, and the stress causes headaches, upset stomach, and
sleeplessness. For now, try to relax and exercise. It may solve your problems. Come back to see
me again if the symptoms persist, and I will do further tests. I am going to give youa
prescription for your pneumoniAre you allergic to any medications?

Laur Not to my knowledge.

Doctor OK, take this medication three times a day after you eat. Also, I want you to have some
blood tests. Stop by the laboratory on your way out and have the nurse draw your blood.

Laur I am anxious to know my cholesterol level. When will I get the results of the blood test?

Doctor The results will be available in two weeks. Don’t stress yourself. I think everything will
be OK.

Laur Thank you, Doctor.

Doctor You are welcome.


Have an appointment with
 

EXERCISES

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of three students. Have one student plays the role of Clerk
and Nurse, another the role of Doctor and another the role of Laura.

2 Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.
How do you feel?  I feel fine.
I think I have the flu.

40
T have a cold.

I have a runny nose.
I feel sick.

T have a headache.
My throat hurts.

What might lead to heart diseases? Smoking, high blood pressure, and high
level of cholesterol in the blood.
Increase your physical activity and
maintain a healthy weight.

You do not need a prescription for
Aspirin.

No, we will mail the test results to you.

What is good for my health?

Are you going to give me a prescription for
my headache?
Do I need to make another appointment?

Did you get a flu shot this year?  Not yet, but I am thinking about it.
Why did they rush him to the hospital?  They rushed him to the hospital because
they thought he had a stroke.
Why did they take you to the emergency room?  They took me to the emergency room
because I kept on throwing up.
Why did they take your vital signs? A They always take our vital signs when we
go to the doctor.
What seems to be the problem?  Thad severe stomach aches and diarrhea.
What should I do to stay healthy?  You need to eat a healthy diet and to
stay active.
What are the possible side effects of this  You might feel dizzy or weak after
medicine? taking the medicine.





3 Comprehension test

a What time is Laura’s appointment with the doctor?

b Where does the physical checkup take place?

c Why does Laura want to see Doctor Clark?

d When did Laura start feeling bad?

e What kinds of medications is she taking?

f How are Laura’s vital signs?

g What kind of information is Dr. Clark trying to get from Laura?

h What happened at work? What happened to Laura after that?

i What is Dr. Clark’s diagnosis?

J What will happen if the symptoms persist?

k What does Dr. Clark want to know before he gives Laura a prescription?
1 How many times a day does Laura have to take the medicine for pneumonia?
m What else does Dr. Clark want Laura to do?

n When will Laura get the results of her blood test?

4 Discussion

a How often do you go to the doctor for a physical checkup?

b What kind of illness do you usually have? How do you treat it?
c How important is exercise to good health?

41
d What do people do for exercise in your country?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW

VERBS

Verbs not only describe the action but also the time of the action. The time of occurrence is
expressed through six tenses the present, the past, the future, the present perfect, the past perfect
and the future perfect.

Present tense
1 The present tense is used to show that the action is happening now.
I want you to get a blood test.
I do not see any problems.

2 The present tense is also used to indicate a true fact.
The sun is bright.
It is cold in the winter.

3 The present tense is also used to indicate habits or customary actions.
Susan always bites her nails. (Susan bites her nails in the past, today and she will
continue to bite her nails in the future
I go to the supermarket every Saturday. (In the past, now, and in the future, I always go
to the supermarket every Saturday

4 The present tense can be used to replace the future tense after words that indicate time
such as when, until, as soon as, before or words that indicate condition such as ifor
unless.

I will do further tests if the symptoms persist.
The doctor will see you when he is done with Ms. Anderson.

Present progressive tense

The progressive tenses are used to indicate that an action is ongoing at a particular time.
The action begins at some earlier time, is in progress at the indicated moment, and probably
continues for some time after that.

The present progressive tense is used to indicate that an action is currently in progress.

BE IN PRESENT TENSE + PRESENT PARTICIPLE
I am taking vitamin C.
Doctor Clark is seeing Laura at the moment.

Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

42
How is the weather in the summer?
What did your dad tell you yesterday?

Why do you wear sunglasses?

What do you do on Saturday?

What does your youngest son do every day?
What do you do when you get home every day?
What is he going to do when he meets Sarah?

When will he leave for Paris?
When will you take the SAT test?
What are you doing?

Why is the baby crying?
How does Mary feel after her trip?

 It is hot and humid during the summer.
A He told me that fire is very dangerous

A

rrr SF Prrrr

during dry seasons.

I wear sunglasses because the sun is
bright.

I go to the market every Saturday.

He goes to preschool everyday.

I cook dinner after I get home every day.
He will apologize when he meets her.
He will go to Paris when he has some
free time.

I will take the SAT test only if I am
ready.

I am reading John Young’s new novel.
He is crying because he is hungry.

She is not feeling well after the trip.

43
 

 

EIGHT
GOING TO THE MARKET

 

Situation Laura’s mother had asked her to go grocery shopping before she went to work this
morning. Since Laura is still busy with her homework, she asks her sister Martha to go to the
market for her.

Laur Mom had asked me to go grocery shopping before she left for work this morning, but I
need to finish my school project. Can you go for me, Martha?

Marth I guess I can. I am done with my homework. What did mom want you to buy?

Laur Well, she wanted me to buy enough groceries for the whole week. Besides meat, some
fish and vegetables, we can buy whatever else we want for snacks and breakfast.

Marth What do you want for breakfast?
Laur I guess some cereal as usual.
Marth I do not want cereal everyday. I will buy some pancakes and syrup then.

Laur Get the new FineFood pancakes in the frozen food section please. I want to see how it
tastes.

Marth Do we still have enough coffee and cream for mom and dad?

Laur Yes, we do. Talking about coffee and cream, you better buy some milk also. We almost
ran out of it.

Marth Next, what do you want for snacks?
Laur Some chips would be fine with me. You probably want your chocolate cookies.

Marth I better write down all these things; otherwise, I will forget them by the time I get to the
market. I would hate to make two trips to take care of things.

Laur Right! As far as meat, mom wants some pork and some chicken.
Marth Just any kind of pork?

Laur I forgot to ask mom about that. Anyways, you can ask the butcher for his opinion. He
knows what is best.

Marth How about fish?

Laur Mom wants some salmon and some catfish. Make sure that they are fresh.

44

 
Marth How much salmon and catfish should I buy?

Laur Oh, buy four pieces of salmon filet and four pieces of catfish filet. Mom does not like to
get the whole fish.

Marth Are these fish filets sold by weight or by the piece?

Laur I am not very sure. Just buy four decent sized pieces. Not too big and not too small.
Marth Do I need to buy some spices so mom can marinate the fish?

Laur Yes, get some ground pepper and some garlic.

Marth Now, how about vegetables? Mom probably wants carrots, potatoes, cabbages and
some lettuce.

Laur That would be fine. We need some fruits also. What do you want?
Marth Dad always packs an apple for lunch everyday. I want the same thing.
Laur We have already run out of eggs. So, get a carton of eggs also.
Marth How about some soft drinks?

Laur No, buy some bottled water instead. It is healthier for us. We need to cut down on our
intake of sugar, as too much sugar is not good for our bodies.

Marth I need to put bread on the list before I forget. Should I get one loaf or two?
Laur One loaf will be enough. Put down a bag of rice also.

Marth Do we need anything for dessert?

Laur Get a box of ice cream.

Marth Ice cream? Isn’t ice cream packed with sugar?

Laur Yes, but since I already drink water instead of soft drinks, one or perhaps two scoops of
ice cream after dinner is not too bad. Besides, mom loves ice cream, especially cherry vanilla.

Marth OK, I will put down one box of ice cream if you say so. Do you want me to buy some
pastries for you?

Laur I know the pastries at the market are delicious; however, no is my answer. Do not tempt
me, Martha.

45
Marth Just asking, Laura.
Laur You have quite a few items to take care of. You need to get going.

Marth Yes, the list is quite long. By the time I get to the cashier to pay, I will probably have a
full shopping cart. OK, I am all set to go. I will be back soon.

Laur Drive carefully please!

Marth I will.



 

EXERCISES

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of Laura
and another the role of Martha.

2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

46
Where are you going?  I am going to the supermarket.

Do they sell only meat at the supermarket?  No, they sell a lot of things. There is a
section for meat, a section for frozen
food, a section for vegetables....

Do supermarkets carry wine?  Yes, they have a whole section for
liquor.
What can you buy at the supermarket? A Ican buy groceries, over-the-counter

medicines or daily hygiene stuffs like
toothpaste, detergent, and soap.

What else do you find at the supermarket?  Nowadays, there is a pharmacy inside
most supermarkets.

Do you have to bargain at the supermarket?  No, because the prices are fixed.

How do they sell things at the supermarket?  You can buy things by the package or by

weight.

When is the best time to go to the supermarket?  It is best for you to go when you are not
hungry. Otherwise, you will want to
buy everything that you see.

What are the hours of supermarkets?  Supermarkets are usually open from
5AM to midnight.

Were they ever closed?  I don’t think they were ever closed. They
are open even on major holidays.

Do you go to the supermarket everyday?  No. Like everybody, I always buy

groceries for the whole week.
What happens if you suddenly run out of things?  I will have to make an extra trip to the
supermarket then.

3 Comprehension test

a When did Laura’s mom ask her to go grocery shopping?
b Why does Laura ask Martha to go to the market?

c Why does Martha agree to go grocery shopping?

d What does Martha want for breakfast?

e What kind of pancakes does Laura want?

f Do they want chips for breakfast?

g Why should Martha write down all the things she needs to buy?
h What should Martha buy for the main meals?

i What does Laura’s mother use to marinate fish?

J Why does Martha need to buy eggs?

k Why shouldn’t Martha buy some soft drinks?

1 Why does Laura want to buy ice cream?

m Why should Martha get going?

4 Discussion

a How often does your family go to the market for groceries? Describe the marketplace where
you usually go to for grocery shopping.

b Do you like to go to the market? Why? Why not?

c Describe the regular meals that you have during the day.

47
 

GRAMMAR REVIEW

VERBS

Past tense

The past tense is used to indicate an action that happened and ended at a particular time in the
past or a habit in the past. In general, the past tense is formed by adding -ed to the end of the
verb.

VERB + ED
Mom asked me to go grocery shopping this morning.
She wanted me to buy enough groceries for the whole week this morning.

For certain verbs, past tense are not formed by merely adding -ed. These types of verbs are called
irregular verbs. Some verbs have the same form as the present form, others completely change to
express past tense.

 

Verb Present Past Tense Past Participle
Hit Hit Hit Hit

Cut Cut Cut Cut

Read Read Read Read

Do Do Did Done

Tell Tell Told Told

Begin Begin Began Begun

Drive Drive Drove Driven

Past Progressive tense

The past progressive tense is used to indicate that an action was in progress at a particular time in
the past or that an action was ongoing when another action happened in the past. Generally, the
past progressive tense is formed by using the verb be in the simple past and the present participle
of the verb.

BE IN PAST TENSE + PRESENT PARTICIPLE
I was talking to Christine after dinner last night.
Paul was exercising when his mother got home from work yesterday.

Present perfect tense
The present perfect tense is used when an action happened at an unspecified time in the past. The
present perfect tense is formed by adding fave or has to a past participle.

HAVE/HAS + PAST PARTICIPLE
I have done my homework.
She has cooked dinner.

However, when the present perfect tense is accompanied by since or for, tt shows that the action
started in the past, is currently happening and will continue in the future.

48
I have been with Multi-Max since November 1*. (I started to work for Multi-Max on
November 1*, I am still working there today and will continue to work there in the
future Note give an exact date after since

I have worked in this field for ten years. (1 started working in this field ten years ago. I
am still working in this field now, and I will continue to work in this field in the future.
Note give a duration of time after for

Present perfect progressive tense
The present perfect progressive tense is used to indicate that an action has been in progress until
now. This tense is used to express the duration of the action.

HAVE BEEN/HAS BEEN + PRESENT PARTICIPLE
He has been cleaning his room for the last two hours. (He started to clean his room two
hours ago, and he is still cleaning it now

Past perfect tense
The past perfect tense is used to indicate that an action occurred before another action in the past.
The past perfect tense is formed by adding /ad to a past participle.

HAD + PAST PARTICIPLE
Thad finished my homework when John came last night. (Last night I finished my
homework first, and then John came over

Past perfect progressive tense

The past perfect progressive is used to indicate that an action was ongoing before another action
happened in the past. This tense is used to express the duration of the action, and is formed with
had been and the present participle of the verb.

HAD BEEN + PRESENT PARTICIPLE
Paul had been watching television for two hours before it was turned off. (There are two
actions in this sentence watch television and turn off television

Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

When did you finish your homework?  I finished my homework yesterday.

What did you do during past summers?  Inthe past, I went home during summer.

What was he doing when it rained yesterday?  He was sleeping when it rained.

What happened at 6PM yesterday?  John was driving home when the
accident happened.

Did you finish your homework?  Ihave done my homework.

How long have you been living in Long Beach?  I have lived in Long Beach since 1980.

How long have you been working for John?  Ihave worked for John for two years.

When did he start working on his homework?  He has been working on his homework
since 300 o’clock.

How long has it been raining?  It has been raining for three hours.

49
Did you meet my son?

Did you have to water the lawn?
How long did she study before the test?

 No, your son had left when I came
yesterday.

 No, it had rained when I got home.

 She had been studying for three hours
before they started the test.

50
 

 

NINE
I NEED HELP!

 

Situation Henry is having problems with his homework. His friend Tim is having problems with
building a doll house. They are seeking each other's help.

Tim Henry, what are you doing?

Henry | have been trying to solve this physics problem for the last half hour, and I still have no
idea how to do it.

Tim When do you have to turn it in?
Henry It is due at the end of this week.
Tim Well, it is only Monday. Why don’t you get some after-school-tutoring tomorrow?

Henry I have to sign up for it first. I guess I will go sign up for the Wednesday session
tomorrow.

Tim You should reread the before you show up for the session. It will help you
understand the subject matter better.

Henry OK, I will do that.
Tim Now that your problem is solved, I need you to lend me a hand with my problem.
Henry What is up?

Tim I need to build a new doll house for Nancy. I was putting her doll house away, and
somehow I accidentally dropped it. It was broken into pieces.

Henry How clumsy of you! Does she know?
Tim I told her about it. I could not lie to her.
Henry How did she take it?

Tim My sister really liked that doll house, and obviously she was not very happy. But, I told her
that I would build a better one for her. So, I need your help.

Henry Me? Help you? I have never built anything in my life.

Tim Me neither. But, don’t worry. Putting together pieces of wood is not going to be difficult.

31

 
Henry It is more than just putting pieces of wood together. You need to put in windows and
doors. Have you thought about how you would do that?

Tim Who says houses need to have windows and doors?
Henry So, you are going to build a doll house with no windows and no doors?
Tim Yes, I do not see anything wrong with that. Do you?

Henry No. It makes the project easier to handle now. But, are you sure that Nancy will not
mind having a doll house with no doors and no windows?

Tim Yes, I am sure.

Henry Are you sure that Nancy will find this doll house with no doors and no windows prettier
than the one you broke?

Tim No, I am not sure. Why do you have to make things so complicated?

Henry I am not trying to complicate things. You did tell Nancy that the new doll house would
be better than the one you broke. I just want to remind you of your promise.

Tim Ah, I wish I have not touched her doll house! What should I do then?

Henry Get help from somebody who knows how to build a doll house. I would not be of any
help to you in this project.

Tim Who do you suggest I ask?

Henry Mr. Brown used to be a carpenter. He will be glad to help you out. Why don’t you give
him a call, and see whether he has some free time.

Tim You are right. It will take us forever to build this doll house. With Mr. Brown’s help, I can
finish it in no time.

Henry OK, now that your problem is solved, can you help me trim the trees in the back yard?
Tim Who? Me? Trim the trees in your back yard? It will take us ages to trim those trees. Let’s

see who is good at trimming trees. Ah, you can ask Mr. Brown. He is also good at trimming
trees. And, when you ask for his help, please ask him to help me build a doll house also.

 

EXERCISES

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.
Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.
Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of John

and another the role of Mike.

2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

Why did it take you so long to finish your
homework this afternoon?

What are after-school-tutoring sessions for?

What subject matter do you need help with?
What can I do to help?

Did you at least try to solve it on your own?

Why should I help you with building the
doll house?

Why do you think so?

By the way, what are you good at?

3 Comprehension test

Thad difficulties understanding the
problem.

They are set up to provide additional
help to students outside of school hours.

I need help with English.

A Youcan go over the with me, and
then help me solve the problem.

Yes, I have been trying to solve it for the
last two hours.

Because you are better at it than I am.

Because you are always good at

carpentry.
To tell you the truth, I am not really sure
What kind of problem does Henry have?
When should Henry turn in his physics homework?
What is Tim’s suggestion to Henry?
When does Henry want to be tutored in physics?
What should Henry do in order to understand the subject matter better?
Why does Tim need Henry’s help?
Do Henry and Tim have any experiences in building doll houses?
What does Tim think about building doll houses?
Why does Henry keep on asking Tim questions about building the doll house?
Is Henry trying to complicate things?
Is there anybody else that Tim can ask for help with his project?
What can Mr. Brown do?
When was the last time you had problems with a project? Describe the problem.
How did you solve the problem in question (a?
Does your school have a program to help students with their homework or their understanding of academic subject matters? If not, where did you get help?

Future tense

The future tense is used to indicate that an action will happen at a particular time in the future.
The future tense is formed by adding shall or will in front of the verb.

SHALL/WILL + VERB
I will build a better doll house for her later on.
The results will be available in two weeks.
I shall do it tomorrow.
I will do it tomorrow.
Shall I call you at nine o’clock tomorrow?
Will you call me tomorrow?
We can also express the future with verb be + going to instead of shall or will.
He will build a doll house with no windows.
He is going to build a doll house with no windows.
We use might to express possibility in the future when we are not sure.
They might go to Mary’s party tonight.Future progressive tense
The future progressive is used to indicate that an action will be ongoing at a particular time in the
future.
Peter will be eating his dinner at 700PM tomorrow.
Janet will be taking dancing lesson at 500PM on Thursday.

Future perfect tense
The future perfect tense is used to indicate that an action will happen in the future before another
action.

When you finish your homework, your father will have left. (Tonight, your father will
leave before you finish your homework

I will have finished my homework before noon.

Future perfect progressive tense

The future perfect progressive is used to indicate that an action will be ongoing in the future
when another action happens. This tense is used to express the duration of the action and is
formed by adding wi// have been to a present participle.

WILL HAVE BEEN + PRESENT PARTICIPLE
Paul will have been exercising for two hours when we go to the airport.

Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

What will you do tomorrow?  I will leave for Texas tomorrow.

What will your mother do when she gets home?  She will cook dinner when she gets home

What is your plan for tomorrow?  I am going to bake a pie tomorrow.

What is your plan for tonight? A I might go to the movies tonight.

What will you be doing at 5PM tomorrow?  I will be exercising at the gym at that

time.

What will he be doing when his mom gets  He will be watering the front yard.
home tomorrow.

When will your mother leave for work  She will have left before the school bus
tomorrow? comes to pick me up.

Will you still be home when your son wakes  I will have left for work when my son
up tomorrow? wakes up tomorrow.

How long will you be exercising when your  I will have been exercising for two
wife takes the kids to school? hours.

How long will you have been back  I will have been back for a week when

from Hawaii when school starts next month? school starts next month.
LOOKING FOR AN APARTMENT
Situation John and James will start their first semester at the University of Southern California
soon, and they are trying to find an apartment before school starts.

John Hey, James. What are you doing here?

James I am looking for an apartment to rent. What are you doing here? Looking for an
apartment also?

John Yes. Since my parents’ house is so far away, I need to find an apartment closer to school. I
thought you were going to stay at the school dormitory.

James I still have not decided whether to stay at the dormitory or not. I am looking at different
options to find the cheapest lodging.

John So, what are you looking for?

James All I need is a place big enough for my bed, my desk and my television. Of course, the
place should have a kitchen so that I can cook my meals. I will be living on a very tight budget
and will have to watch every dime.

John Me too. I cannot work full-time like I did during the summer. I will cut down on my
workload in order to spend most of the time on my studies. So, a safe and decent apartment is all
I need.

James How long have you been looking?

John | just started this week. Since school is going to start next month, I figured I better start
the process as soon as possible.

James It is not easy to find an apartment to your liking that does not cost a lot. I have been
looking at the ads in the newspaper for two weeks, and I still have not found anything yet.

John Really? Is it that difficult to find an apartment?
James No, it is just that everything I like so far is too expensive and way beyond my reach.

John Is it because they are very close to school? I heard that the closer they are to school, the
higher the rental cost.

James Maybe that is the problem. Since I do not have a car, I need to find something close to
school.

56

 
John Have you thought about sharing an apartment? If you want, we can find a two bedroom
apartment and share it. It may be cheaper that way.

James That could solve our problem.
John Wait! Maybe we should talk this over before we decide.

James Right. For this plan to succeed, we need to come up with some sort of agreement or set
of rules.

John Here is my first question What do you do during the weekdays?

James I have to work at Starbucks from 800AM to 1200PM, and then I have school from
100PM to 500PM. After that I plan to go home, eat dinner, and work on my school
assignments. How about you?

John Well, I have class from 800AM to 1000AM, and then I go to the library to work until
200PM. After that, it is school again until 400PM. I plan to stay on campus until 600PM to
work on my computer projects, and then go home to work on my other classes’ assignments.

James It is my tum to ask the second question. Do you plan to have your friends over at the
apartment very often?

John No, not on weekdays. I want to finish my homework during the weekdays as much as
possible. I think half of my weekend will also be reserved for homework. If my friends do stop
by, it will probably be during the weekend.

James Good, I plan to do the same things during school time. I also plan to visit my parents
during the weekend. My mom is a great cook.

John My parents’ house is too far to visit once a week. I will go home to see them and my little
brother during the holidays. I need to be happy with whatever foods I cook.

James It seems that sharing an apartment with you may work. Do you want to try it?

Yes Let’s go in and take a look at this one.
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

What is the rental cost of this house?  The monthly rent is five hundred dollars.

How big is the house?  It has three bedrooms and two
bathrooms.

Do I need to give you a security deposit?  Yes, I need a three hundred dollar
deposit.

What is the security deposit for?  To make sure that my tenant takes
good care of my house.

Do you require first and last month rent  Yes, Ido.

up-front?

Does the rent cover utilities?  No, the tenant will have to pay for his
own utility cost.

Who has to take care of the lawn?  The tenant will have to take care of the
lawn.

Will you call my current landlord for reference?  Yes, I need a reference from your
current landlord.

When will the house be available?  The house will be available in another
week.

Do [have to give you notice if I need to  I need to give you a month notice if I

move out? take the house back, and you need to

give me a month notice if you decide
to move out.

When can I move in?  Tam still accepting rental applications.
So, I do not have an answer for your
question.

When will you make a decision?  Probably in another week.

3 Comprehension test

58
What is James doing?

Why does John need to find an apartment?

Why is James looking at other options besides the college dormitory?
What kind of apartment does James want to rent?

Why is John going to cut down on his workload?

Why does John need to start finding an apartment now?

How is the rental cost of apartments close to school?

Why does James need a place close to school?

What is John’s solution to the high rental cost problem?

What is James’s daily schedule?

What is John’s daily schedule?

Do John and James plan to have their friends over during the weekdays?
Why is John planning to visit his family only during the holidays?

Discussion

What type of person do you like to have for roommate?

What kind of apartment can you find in your country?

Do you prefer staying in an apartment to staying at home with your parents while attending
college? What are the advantages of staying in an apartment? What are the advantages of staying
at home?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW
VERBS
Negative form of verbs
To indicate that an action does not happen, we use the negative form of verbs. To express the
negative form of verbs
1 Add do not or does not when the present tense is used.
I need a place big enough for my bed and my desk. I do not need a place big enough for
my bed and my desk.
She wants breakfast in bed. She does not want breakfast in bed.

2 Add did not to the base form of the verb when the past tense is used.
I started looking for an apartment last weekend. I did not start looking for an apartment
last weekend.
I decided to stay at the dormitory. I did not decide to stay at the dormitory.

3 Ifthe verb is in a progressive mode, in the future tense, or in a perfect tense; add not in
between the two parts of the verb.
My brother is sleeping. My brother is not sleeping.
I will go to the movies tonight. I will not go to the movies tonight.
I have been to Paris. I have not been to Paris.

Imperative form of verbs
Verbs can be placed at the beginning of the sentence to express a command, a piece of advice or
an instruction.

59
Wait!
Shut your eyes!
Go this way!

Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.
Do you like to eat steak?

Does she plan to stop by after work?
Do you want to go out tonight?

Did he break the lamp?

Did the baby cry during sleep?

Did your father scold you for being late?

Is your father eating dinner?

Are they going to play in the rain?
Are they going to work overtime?
What did you say?

What should I do?

What was your advice?

What did he want me to do?

When should I leave town?

Can I eat the cake now?

Perr rrrrrrrrrrer

 No, I do not like steak.

 No, she does not plan to stop by.

No, I do not want to go out tonight.

No, he did not break the lamp.

No, she did not cry during sleep.

No, he did not scold me for being late.
No, he is not eating dinner.

No, they are not going to play in the rain
No, they are not going to work overtime.
Drive carefully!

Listen to your mother!

Don’t be late for the interview!

Ask him yourself!

Do not leave town until the morning!
Wait until your father gets home!

60
 

 

ELEVEN
FORMAL CONVERSATION

 

Situation Jane, Leslie, and Mary are having lunch at the restaurant. Since they will have to
give a presentation on etiquette rules next week, they try to practice by talking very formally to
each other.

Jane Leslie, may I borrow your cell phone to call my mother after we finish lunch?

Leslie Yes, of course, Jane. And please, do not forget to ask your mother whether you may go to
the movies with us afterwards.

Mary Jane, could you pass the salt, please?

Jane Sure, here you are.

Mary And the pepper too, please. Thank you.

Jane You are welcome.

Leslie Would both of you mind if I stop by Marcus bookstore on our way to the movie?
Jane No, not at all.

Mary I would love to look at their New Book selection. So, I would like to stop there also.
Jane Would both of you like to go shopping after the movie?

Leslie Maybe some other time. I need to be home by 500 o’clock.

Mary I can go with you if you want.

Jane That would be great. I need to pick up a gift for my brother. His birthday is on Sunday
next week. What would you recommend, Mary?

Mary Just a moment please. Let me think. Maybe a fishing pole since he loves fishing?

Jane What a clever suggestion! My brother will thank me for the lovely gift. I hope there is a
fishing store in the mall.

Leslie I ordered too many French fries. Would anybody care for some?
Jane Yes, I would like some.

Leslie How about you, Mary?

61

 
Mary No, thank you. I have enough food already.

Jane Leslie, would you like some of my fried rice?

Leslie Yes, please. Just a little bit.

Jane Here you go.

Leslie Oh, that is enough! No more, please.

Jane Mary, did you remember to bring my Harry Potter book?

Mary Oh, I am sorry. I completely forgot about it. Could you call to remind me again tonight?
Jane Certainly.

Leslie If you do not mind, may I borrow the book after you are done with it?

Jane I promised to let John borrow it after I get it back from Mary. You are welcome to have it
once John is finished. John is a fast reader, he will finish it in no time.

Leslie I, on the other hand, am a pretty slow reader. How long do you think I may keep it?

Jane I already read it. So, you may keep it as long as you want. Give it back to me at your
earliest convenience.

Leslie Thank you, Jane. That will save me some money.
Mary Are we all done? We should leave now to catch the next show; otherwise, we will be late.
Leslie I am ready anytime you are.

Jane So am I. Shall we go?


Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of three students. Have one student plays the role of Leslie,
another the role of Mary and another the role of Jane.

2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions or greetings and answers. Ask

them to come up with similar questions or greetings and answers.

G May I introduce myself? I am Jonathan.  Nice to meet you. I am Laura.

G Hello Kevin. How are you?  Tam fine, thank you.

G Good to see you, AnHow are you doing? I am doing fine, thank you.

G Karen, this is John, our new employee. John, welcome aboard.

G Thank you for your help. You are welcome.

G Thank you for your help. My pleasure.

Could you please do me a favor and give I would be glad to give Mike a call.
Mike a call?

 Pr Pr Perr ee S

Could you come back after work, please?  Yes, certainly.
Would you like some coffee?  Thank you for your offer, but I do not
drink coffee.
Excuse me, would you mind repeating that? Not at all.
Could you give me a hand to move this Yes, certainly.
desk, please?
May I help you?  Thank you for your help.
May I have a word with you, please?  Yes, Karen.

3 Comprehension test

a Why does Jane want to borrow Leslie’s phone?

b What do they want to do after lunch?

c What do they want to do on their way to the movie?

d Why doesn’t Mary mind stopping at the bookstore?

e Why doesn’t Leslie want to go shopping after the movie?

f What should Jane buy for her brother on his birthday? Why?
g Why does Leslie want to give away some of her French fries?

63
h What did Mary forget to do?

i Why can’t Leslie borrow the Harry Potter book after Jane gets it back from Mary?
J What kind of reader is John?

k How long can Leslie keep the book?

4 Discussion

a What is etiquette?

b What are some of the etiquette rules in your country?
c Do we need to observe etiquette rules? Why? Why not?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW

VERBS

Contraction of verbs

Verbs do not have to be completely written out. Contractions of verbs are generally used in
informal writing.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Full form Contraction
lam Tm

You are You're

You are not You aren’t
He/She/It is He/She/It’s
He/She/It is not He/She/It isn’t
T have I’ve

Thave not T haven’t
He/She/It has He/She/It’s
He/She/It has not He/She/It hasn’t
I had I'd

Thad not T hadn’t

I shall, I will Vil

I will not I won't

I should not I shouldn’t

I would I'd

I would not I wouldn't
Ido not I don’t
He/She/It does not He/She/It doesn’t
I did not I didn’t

I can not I can’t

I could not I couldn’t

 

 

 

Auxiliary verbs
Auxiliary verbs are verbs that are used with a main verb to express different meanings. The
three main auxiliary verbs are be, have and do. Others are

Can
1 Used to express ability, right or skill.
I can solve this problem. (Ability
I can use my money any way I want. (Right
I can sketch a portrait of your child in ten minutes. (Skill

2 Used to request or grant permission.
Can I eat this cake?
You can go now.

Could
1 Used to express ability, right or skill in the past.
I could solve this problem when I was in fifth grade.
I could use my money anyway I wanted then.
I could sketch a portrait of your child in ten minutes then.

2 Used to express conditional possibility.
Ifmy mother could bake, she would make me a cake.

3 Used to express politeness.
Could you pass the salt, please?

4 Used to express a suggestion.
We could go to the movies once we finish our homework.

5 Has the same meaning as Can with less certainty.
He could fall down if he is not careful.

Will
1 Used to express future actions.
I will go to Paris next week.

2 Used to express a command.
You will clean the house after you finish your homework.

Would
1 Used to express a request or desire.
Would you join me for dinner? (Request
I would love to look at their New Book selection. (Desire

2 Used to express a polite request.
Would you mind if I stop by Marcus bookstore on our way to the movie?

3 Used to express a habit.
Every year, we would meet to plan a family get-together for my mother’s birthday.

4 Used in implied conditions.

65
I would have done my homework, but I had company. (The implied condition here is if 7
had not had company

I never would have stopped at the stop sign without seeing the policeman. (The implied
condition here is if 7 had not seen the policeman

5 Used to express the future in past sentences
He told me he would go to your party.

6 Used to express an intention.
Our mothers would have us clean our rooms every week.

May
1 Used to request permission or to express a polite request.
May I go to the movies? (Request permission
May I borrow the Harry Potter book after you are done with it? (Polite request

2 Used to express possibility of an event or condition happening.
It may snow in Denver tomorrow.

3 Used to express a desire or wish.
May you have a great Christmas season!

Might
1 Used to express a weaker possibility than may.
I might get sick just from sitting next to Mary.

Must

1 Used to express a requirement or necessity.
You must leave for school at 800 o’clock. (Requirement
You must do this for me. (Necessity

2 Used to express a command or demand.
You must stay quiet!

3 Used to express a high level of certainty.
Why is John still at school?
His mother must be late picking him up. (1 am quite certain that his mother is late
picking him up

Should
1 Used to express an obligation or duty.
We should leave to catch the next show.
You should finish your work before you leave.

2 Used to express strong probability or expectation.
Mary should be calling us soon. (Expectation

66
After those long hours at school, she should do well on her exams. (Very strong

probability

Ought
Used to express an obligation or duty.

He ought to respect his elders. (Obligation

John ought to serve his country. (Duty
Let’s (short for “let us”

Used to make a suggestion.
Let’s go to the movies tonight.

Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

How are you doing?

Would you like some coffee

Could you give me a hand?

Do they like cookies?

Did you spend all your money?

Have you done your chores?

Has she read the new novel by James Wood?
Have you done your homework?

Are they hungry?

Can they drive?

Had he been drinking before his arrival?

Had he been sick before he went on vacation?

Will you return this gift for me?
Will you call him for me?
May I borrow some money?

Must he call you before he leaves?
Shouldn’t he finish school before looking
for a job?

rr Pre SF PEEP EeE EE rrrey

 Pm doing fine, thank you.

Id like to have some coffee.

Sorry, I couldn’t give you a hand.

No, they don’t like cookies.

No, I didn’t spend all my money.

No, I haven’t done my chores.

No, she hasn’t read the new novel.
Yes, ve done my homework.

Yes, theyre hungry.

No, they can’t drive.

No, he hadn’t been drinking before his
arrival.

Yes, he’d been sick before he went on
vacation.

Yes, I'll return the gift for you.

No, I won't call him for you.

Yes, you may borrow some money from
me.

No, he mustn’t call me before he leaves.
Yes, he should finish school before
looking for a job.

67
SECTION I

PROFESSIONAL LIFE
 

 

TWELVE
LOOKING FOR A JOB

 

Situation John just graduated with a Bachelor degree in Finance. As a result, he wants to find
a job in his field of studies instead of continuing to hold his current Payroll position.

Nancy Hi. It is good to see you, John.

John Same here, Nancy. It has been a long time since I last saw you.

Nancy Yes, the last time we saw each other was New Year’s Eve. How are you doing?
John I am doing OK. It would be better if I have a new job right now.

Nancy You are looking for a new job? Why?

John | already finished my studies and graduated last week. Now, I want to get a job in the
Finance field. Payroll is not exactly Finance.

Nancy How long have you been looking for a new job?
John | just started this week.

Nancy Didn’t you have any interviews with those firms that came to our campus last month? I
believe quite a few companies came to recruit students for their Finance departments.

John I could only get one interview with Fidelity Company because of my heavy work-
schedule. A month has already gone by, and I have not heard from them. I guess I did not make
it.

Nancy Don’t worry, John. You always did well in school. I know your good grades will help
you get a job soon. Besides, the job market is pretty good right now, and all companies need
financial analysts.

John I hope so.

Nancy You have prepared a resume, right?

John Yes.

Nancy Did you mail your resume to a lot of companies? How about recruiting agencies?

John | have sent it to a dozen companies already. No, I have not thought about recruiting
agencies. But, I do look closely at the employment ads listed in the newspaper every day.

Nancy Are there a lot of openings?

69

 
John Quite a few. Some of them require a certain amount of experience and others are willing
to train.

Nancy My friends told me that it helps to do some homework before you go to an interview.
You need to know the company well—what kind of business is it in? What types of products
does it sell? How is it doing lately?

John Yes, I know. I am doing some research on companies that I want to work for. I want to be
ready whenever they call me in for an interview.

Nancy Have you thought about questions they might ask you during the interview?
John What types of questions do you think they will ask?

Nancy Well, they might ask you some questions about Finance theories to test your academic
understanding.

John I can handle that.
Nancy They might tell you about a problem and want you to come up with a solution.

John I don’t know about that. I hope I will be able to give them a decent response if the need
arises.

Nancy They will want to know you a little bit before they make a hiring decision. So, they may
ask you to describe yourself. For example, what are your strengths and your weaknesses? How
do you get along with people?

John I need to work on that question. How would I describe myself? Huh!

Nancy Also, make sure you are on time. Nothing is worse than to be late for an interview. You
do not want to give them a bad impression, right from the start.

John I know. I always plan to arrive about 10 or 15 minutes before the interview starts.

Nancy Good decision! It seems that you are well prepared for your job search. I am sure you
will find a good job in no time.

John I hope so.
Nancy I need to run; otherwise, I will be late for school. Good luck in your job search, John.

John Thank you for your advice. Bye!



 

EXERCISES

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of John
and another the role of Nancy.

2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

How is the job market?  The job market is very tight at the

moment.

Are there a lot of job openings in your field?  No, there are very few job openings
in my field.

What type of company do you want  I would like to work for a

to work for? manufacturing company.

What kind of position are you looking for?  Without a lot of experience, I am
looking for an entry-level position.

 I would love to get a job close to home.
However, I would go wherever the job
is.

Are you looking for a job close to home?

What did you put on your resume?  I put down my educational background,
my working experiences, and my past
achievements.

Is that all?  No, [also put down what I am looking

for in the new job.

71
Did you send a letter to the companies  Yes, I did.

along with your resume?

What should you say in the letter?  I should express my interest in the open
position and my wish to have an
interview with them.

What should you do after the interview?  I should send them a thank you letter.

3 Comprehension test

a When was the last time Nancy and John saw each other?

b What is John doing right now?

c Why is John looking for a new job?

d Why did the firms come to Nancy and John’s campus?

e Which company did John have an interview with?

f What does John think about his on-campus interview?

g What is Nancy’s suggestion regarding John’s resume?

h What else should John do besides sending out his resume to companies?
i What are the requirements of the newspaper ads?

J What should John do before going to an interview?

k What are the questions that may be asked during the interview?
1 Why shouldn’t John be late for his interview?

m What time will John be arriving for his interview?

4 Discussion

a What do you put on your resume?

b What should you do to get prepared for an interview?
c How important is it to get a job in your field of studies?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW
VERBS
Rules for verbs
1 Itis very important to find the true subject in a sentence because verbs should agree with
their subjects. If the subject is singular, the verb should be singular. If the subject is plural,
the verb should be plural.
! am doing research on a few companies.
Nothing is worse than to be late for an interview.
The list of guests for the upcoming event was already prepared last month.

2 Verbs in the present tense always end with -s in the case of singular third person.
tT eat.
They eat.
Fle eats.
John eats.

3 Verbs should be singular when nouns depicting quantity, distance, time and amount are used
in the sentence.

72
Fifty dollars is the limit set for the gift exchange.
Twenty years is a long time.

4 In questions, verbs usually precede their subject.
How are you doing?
What are your strengths and weaknesses?

5 Verbs can become nouns by adding -ing to the end of the verbs. The new word is called a
gerund, and it can be used as the subject or object of a verb.
Jogging is one of my hobbies. (Subject
Listening is a necessary skill. (Subject
They might ask you a few questions to test your understanding of Finance. (Object
We are very interested in learning English. (Object

6 Verbs can be classified as active or passive. When the subject is the one doing the action, the
verb is in the active mode.
John drove to school.
My father built our house in 1995.

When the subject is the recipient of the action, the verb is in the passive mode. The passive
mode is formed with the verb be + past participle.

John was driven to school. (John did not drive; somebody drove him to school

Our house was built by my father in 1995.

7 The present participle form of a verb can be used as an adjective.
It is freezing out there.
She is a very loving mother.

Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

What does your mother do every morning?  My mother prepares breakfast for my

father and me every morning.

How do your parents feel about your My parents are very happy for me.
graduation?

Did you prepare the schedule of departures
for Western Airlines?

How do you feel about one hundred dollars?

Can you run 10 miles?

Can you carry fifty kilos of rice?

Do you like to read?

Why do you need to learn English?

The schedule of departures was

prepared a long time ago.

A hundred dollars is a lot of money.
Ten miles is quite a distance.

Fifty kilos is a lot to carry.

Reading is one of my favorite hobbies.
Learning English is a requirement for
passing the citizenship test.

Cooking is a necessary skill for
everybody.

 PP Prr PF YS

Should boys learn how to cook?

73
How is the weather today?

How is John?

What type of company do you want
to work for?

Did John drive to school?

Did John drive to school?

Did John Lennon write the song?
Did John Lennon write the song?

rr Fr PPS

It is freezing today.

John is a hard-working employee.
I would like to work for a
manufacturing company.

Yes, John drove to school.

No, he was driven to school by his
mother.

Yes, John Lennon wrote the song.
Yes, the song was written by John
Lennon.

74
 

 

THIRTEEN
JOB INTERVIEW

 

Situation Lintel, a computer chip manufacturing company, currently has a job opening in its
Finance department. John Miller is the first applicant to be interviewed this morning by Lintel’s
Finance Manager Mike Gates.

Mike Good Morning, John. I am Mike.

John Good Morning.

Mike How are you doing?

John I am doing fine. Thank you.

Mike How was the traffic coming over here?

John I am so glad that the traffic was light this morning. No traffic jam and no accidents.
Mike That is good. John, let’s start the interview. Are you ready?

John Yes, I am.

Mike First of all, let me properly introduce myself. I am the Finance Department Manager. As
you know there is an open position in my department, and I need to fill this position as soon as
possible.

John Please, tell me a little bit about the position.

Mike It is an entry-level position. The new employee will have to work closely with the
Accounting department. He will also have to deal with the bank on a daily basis.

John What type of qualifications do you require?

Mike I require a four-year college degree in Finance. Some working experience would be
helpful.

John What kind of experience are you looking for?

Mike Doing office work is good. However, since this is an entry-level position, I do not require
a lot of experience. I am willing to train the new person.

John That is great!

Mike John, tell me a little bit about yourself.

75

 
John I was a student at West Coast University, and I just graduated with a Bachelor degree in
Finance. I have been working part-time as a payroll clerk for the last two years.

Mike What are you looking for in a job?

John The job should help me see what Finance is all about. I have learned a lot of Finance
theories at school, and now it is time for me to put them into practice.

Mike Anything else?
John | also hope that it will help me grow in my field.
Mike What are your strengths? Why should I hire you?

John I am a hard-working person and a fast learner. I am very eager to learn, and I get along
fine with people.

Mike OK. Now, let me ask you a few quick questions. You do not mind working long hours, do
you?

John No, I do not.
Mike Can you handle pressure?

John Yes, I can. When I was going to school, I took quite a few courses each semester while
working at least twenty hours every week. And, I handled that situation very well.

Mike Do you still have any questions for me?

John No, I think I have a pretty good understanding of the joI believe that I can handle it with
ease, and I hope to have the opportunity to work for you.

Mike John, nice meeting you. Thank you for coming.

John Nice meeting you too. Thank you for seeing me.



Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of John
and another the role of Mike.

2 Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

How should I dress for the interview?  You should wear formal clothing when
you go to an interview.
When should I show up for the interview?  You should arrive at least fifteen

minutes early to fill out the necessary
paperwork and to give yourself some
time to relax before the interview.

What should I bring to the interview?  Bring any letters of recommendation
that you have as well as anything that
may help you qualify for the job.

How should I speak during the interview?  You should speak politely and firmly
during the interview. A firm voice
reflects confidence.

How should I act during the interview?  You should be professional and also
outgoing during the interview. Being
outgoing is one of the many social skills
required by jobs nowadays.

What kind of questions should I ask?  You should ask questions about the job
requirements and about the company’s
operation. You may also inquire about
the fringe benefits offered by the

company.

What are the keys to a successful interview?  Besides having the necessary skills,

77
learn as much as possible about the
company. Also, try to anticipate
questions they may ask and ways to
handle those questions. The more
prepared you are, the more successful
you will be.

3 Comprehension test

a How was the traffic?

b Who is Mike?

c Who is John?

d Why is Mike doing the interview?

e When does Mike need a new employee?

f What is the open position at Lintel?

g What are the duties of the new employee?

h What kind of educational background should the new employee have?
i Does Mike require a lot of experience from the new employee?
J Describe John.

k What does John expect from a job?

1 Why is John so sure that he can handle pressure?

m Does John like to work for Lintel? Why do you think so?

4 Discussion

a What should a person want from a new job?

b What should an employer expect from a new employee?
c What qualities should an employee have?

d How should an applicant act during the interview?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW
ADJECTIVES
Adjectives are words that describe or modify nouns and pronouns.

Types of adjectives
Adjectives can be

1 Attributive

2 Predicate

Attributive adjectives are placed immediately before the noun that they modify.
fam a fast learner.
Let me ask you a few quick questions.

Predicate adjectives are placed after linking verbs (seem, appear, look, taste, feel, smell, become
or after a form of the verb /o be.

The traffic was light this morning.

She is not happy.

78
Rules for adjectives



2

3

4

5

Adjectives are always singular.
Let me ask you a quick question.
Let me ask you a few quick questions.

Adjectives can take the form of a present participle verb.
Some working experiences
A loving mother

A touching story

Nouns can play the role of adjectives when they are used to modify or describe other
nouns.

There was no traffic jam this morning.

I have been working as a payroll clerk for the last two years.

More than one word can be put together to form another adjective. They are usually
joined by a hyphen.

Hard-working

Right-handed

Kind-hearted

Adjectives can also describe how much or how many. These adjectives are fewer, many,
less, a lot of, much, several. For things that can be counted, use fewer and many. For
things that can’t be counted, use /ess, a lot of, much.

I do not require a lot of experience.

I ate fewer candies than you thought.

Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

 

What is the color of your new car?  I bought a red car.

How was the test?  It was a difficult test.

How did your sister look in the new dress?  She looked lovely wearing the new
dress.

How did your brother feel about the gift?  He was happy with the gift.

How are John’s children?  All of them are sick.

How are the new puppies?  They are still very weak.

Is Mary a kind person?  Mary is a kind and caring person.

What kind of story is that?  It is a touching story.

What kind of pie did Mary bake?  She baked a pumpkin pie.

What kind of house does he have?  He only has a straw hut.

How many toys did you buy?  Ibought several toys.

How much paint should I use for this painting?  Please, use a lot of paint.

Is Tom left-handed?  No, Tom is nght-handed.

79
 

 

FOURTEEN
FIRST DAY AT WORK

 

Situation John was hired as a financial analyst by Lintel. Today is John’s first day at work.
Mike Good morning, John.

John Good morning, Mike.

Mike Let me take you to your cubicle and then I will give you a tour of our facility.

Mike Here is your cubicle, your “home away from home” from 800 to 500 every day, John.
John Oh, very nice!

Mike Drop your belongings here, and let’s go!

John OK, I am ready Mike.

Mike That is Mary over there. She is our senior financial analyst. You will be working with her
in the future. Let’s go say hi to her.

Mike Mary, this is John, our department’s new addition.

Mary Welcome aboard, John. I am very glad to see you. Boy! I was swamped with work the
last couple of weeks. But, I can see myself going home at a more decent time from now on.

John Thank you. I am very happy to be here. Just let me know whenever you need me. I am
glad to be of any assistance.

Mike I am giving John a tour of our facility so that he knows his way around here.

Mary See you later, John.

John OK, Mary.

Mike We are now in the Finance department. Next to us, on your left, is the Accounting
department. On your right is the Human Resources department. Go downstairs and we are in the
Engineering department. Further down, at the end of the hallway is the Production areSeventy
percent of our merchandise is produced right here in this facility. We also have one smaller
manufacturing facility overseas that handles the rest of the production. You will be dealing with

Steve, the Production manager. I will introduce you to him later because he is in a meeting at the
moment. Let’s go back to your desk so that we can talk about your duties.

John OK.

80

 
Mike Like I said during the interview, one of your daily jobs is to deal with the bank to keep
track of our financial resources. Every morning, you will access our account through the Internet
to get financial information.

John I should have a login and password, right?

Mike Yes, I will call our bank and inform them that you are our new employee. Your next task
is to call overseas to get other necessary information.

John What kind of data do I need to get from our people overseas?

Mike You will need financial data about their current and future projects.

John Do they need any information from me?

Mike Yes, you need to work with them on their budgets. You can fax or e-mail them the
information. If you need to talk to them, call them as soon as you get in. Remember that they are

eight hours ahead of us.

John The fax machine and the copier are in the next room, right? I saw them when you took me
around.

Mike Yes. Make sure that you create a file for each overseas project. You and I will review
them at the end of every week.

John In the beginning, can you review the files with me more often? I just want to make sure
that I do my job correctly.

Mike Yes, come see me whenever you have questions.
John Thank you.

Mike It is almost the end of November, so your next major task is to help prepare the budget for
next year. You will work closely with Mary on this project.

John That is a long and tedious task. There will be a lot of calculations and a lot of questions to
ask, right?

Mike Yes. So, it is better that both of you start working on this project as soon as possible.
John | will get together with Mary soon.
Mike OK, that should be enough for now. I leave you on your own to get organised.

John Thank you, Mike.

and another the role of Mike and Mary.

2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.
Do I need to fill out any paperwork?

Do I need a badge to get in and out of the

building?
What are my hours?

Do I need to clock in and out everyday?

Are there any breaks in between?

Are new employees subject to probation time?

The Human Resources department

has some paperwork for you to fill out.

Yes, you do. The Human Resources

department will take care of that also.

You can either work from 8AM to 5PM
or start your days at 9AM and get off

at 6PM.

No, not at your position.

You have a ten minute break in the
morning, and another in the afternoon.
Lunch is from 12PM to 1PM.

There is a 90 day probation for all
employees.

82
What are the employee fringe benefits?  The company offers health insurance,
five sick days, and two week vacation
per year to all new employees.

Do I need to work closely with any  Yes. As an accountant, you will be
departments? dealing with all departments.

Will I be involved in the preparation of  Yes, the preparation of the budget is
the annual budget? part of your responsibilities.

Do I need to use Microsoft Excel?  You will need Microsoft Excel, Word,

and Access to do your job.

Let me give you a tour of the facility. Are  Yes, I am.

you ready?

3 Comprehension test

a What happens after Mike takes John to his cubicle?

b Who is Mary?

c Who is the department’s new addition?

d Why is Mary happy to see John?

e What is Mike’s reason for giving John a tour of the facility?

f Where is the Human Resources department?

g Are all products manufactured in America at Lintel?

h Who is Steve? Why can’t John meet Steve right now?

i What are John’s duties at Lintel?

J Why should John access the company’s bank account every morning?
k How can John get a login and password?

1 What kind of data does John get from the overseas office?

m What should John do with the overseas data?

n Why does John want to talk to Mike more often than once a week?
0 Why should John work on the budget as soon as possible?

4 Discussion

a What would you expect on your first day at work?

b Is it necessary to meet everybody that you will be working with on your first day? Why? Why
not?

c What kind of help should a manager give to his new employee? How should a manager train
his new employee?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW

ADJECTIVES

Use of adjectives in comparison

Adjectives can be used in the comparison of people or things.

1 Comparative form

When the comparison involves two persons or objects, we usually add more... than, as...as or
less...than. More...than is used to show a greater degree of the condition or characteristic

83
expressed in the sentence, as...as for the same degree, and /ess...than for a lesser degree.
Less... than can be replaced by not as... as.

This facility is more spacious than the other facility.

Mary is as intelligent as Steve.

John is less active than James.

John is not as active as James.

However, if the adjective is a short word, we usually replace more with -er at the end of the
adjective.

John is taller than James.

Mary is older than Liz.

Notes
1 Ifthe adjective ends with -e, just add -r.
nice, nicer
large, larger

2 Ifthe adjective ends with a consonant which is preceded by a vowel, double the
consonant and add -er.
big, bigger
fat, fatter

3 Ifthe adjective ends with -y, change -y to -i before adding -er.
Pretty, prettier
Easy, easier

4 Sometimes adjectives do not follow the above rules. For example, good becomes better,
bad becomes worse.

2 Superlative form
When the comparison involves more than two persons or objects, the superlative form is used. If
the adjective is a short word, the superlative form is usually formed by adding -est to the
adjective and placing the before it.
John is the tallest boy in our neighborhood. (There are many boys in our neighborhood,
but John is taller than all the other boys. He is the tallest boy
Mary is the kindest volunteer in our group.

If the adjective is a long word, the superlative form is usually formed by adding the most or the
least before the adjectives. The most is used to show the highest degree of the condition or
characteristic expressed in the sentence while the /east is used to express the lowest degree.
Preparing the budget is the most tedious job at the moment.
This is the least expensive gift.

Notes
1 Ifthe adjective ends with -y, change -y to -i before adding -est.

84
She is the friendliest person in our group.
Kimberly is the loveliest baby in this contest.

2 Sometimes adjectives do not follow the above rules. For example, good becomes best,

bad becomes worst.

Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

Is John as busy as Mary?

Is dealing with banks less difficult than
dealing with financing companies?

Is preparing the annual budget more
time-consuming than preparing the
cash report?

Is it easier to set up production in the USA
than overseas?

Is working for Lintel better than working for
another company?

Is calling the bank worse than calling
overseas?

Is preparing the annual budget the most
time-consuming task?

Is this the least expensive machine that
you purchased last month?

Where can I buy the best office equipment?

What was the worst thing that happened
to you last month?

A
A

 FF SF SF SF PS

Yes, John is as busy as Mary.

No, dealing with banks is not less

difficult than dealing with financing
companies.

Yes, preparing the annual budget is more
time-consuming than preparing the cash
report.

Yes, it is easier to set up production here
than overseas.

Yes, working for Lintel is better than
working for another company.

No, calling overseas is worse than
calling the bank.

Yes, it is the most time-consuming task.

Yes, it is the least expensive machine
that I bought last month.

You can buy the best office equipment
at Lintel.

The worst thing that happened to me was

being late on my first day of work.

85
 

 

FIFTEEN
ON THE PRODUCTION FLOOR

 

Situation To better understand the operation at Lintel, John pays a visit to the Production
manager on his second day at work. He tries to get some information on the manufacturing
process at Lintel.

John Good moming, Steve. My name is John, and I am the new person in the Finance
Department.

Steve Good morning, John. What can I do for you?

John As a new person, I need to understand the operation at Lintel. So, I wonder whether I can
ask you some questions about the manufacturing process in your department now.

Steve Hold ona second, John. Let me post this production schedule before we sit down and
talk.

Steve OK, where do you want to start?

John Well, you can describe the production flow in your department.

Steve The production process is based on the customer-order information that I receive from the
Sales department. First, we order raw materials from our suppliers. Once the materials arrive at
our plant, they are transferred to the production floor where they will go through five different

processes before they become finished goods.

John How many suppliers do we deal with? Are they all local suppliers? Do any materials come
from overseas?

Steve We have a very limited number of suppliers. We deal with approximately ten main
suppliers in the US, and we only have a handful of suppliers overseas.

John How do you control the quality of the purchased materials?

Steve One of the reasons for having a limited number of suppliers is to ensure the quality of raw
materials. My Quality Control group works very closely with our suppliers to make sure that
they meet our quality requirements.

John Do you maintain a high level of inventory?

Steve No, we keep a very low level of inventory.

John How do you move materials from one department to the next?

86

 
Steve Very easily through the Material Request form. If department B needs materials from
department A, it will fill out a Material Request form and give it to department A.

John A very simple process. How about labor? How do you calculate the labor cost?

Steve The Engineering department has done a study on the production process. It has calculated
the time required by each different process.

John So, under normal situations, the actual production time of each product should be close to
the estimated time calculated by the Engineering department?

Steve That is nght.
John How do you make sure that we only ship good products to our customers?

Steve We definitely do not want to send out defective products. My employees are always
reminded that product quality is Number One priority at Lintel.

John Do they understand that they should always give their best and that defective products
raise the cost of production?

Steve Yes, they perfectly understand that. As a matter of fact, our defective rate is lower than
one tenth of one percent. We are very proud of our record.

John How do you maintain this excellent record?

Steve We adopt the Continuous Improvement spirit. We evaluate our operating results very
often and strive to excel in our joAnd, those posters on the wall also help. See the slogan
Nothing But Excellence over there?

John Yes. What is good for the company is ultimately good for the employees, right?
Steve Definitely.

John Next question. How many production shifts do you currently have?

Steve There are two shifts. The first one is from 800AM to 430PM and the second one is from
200PM to 1030PM.

John Do the employees carn the same hourly rate?
Steve No, the pay rate of the second shift is ten percent higher than the rate of the first shift.

John That makes sense, Steve. I think I have enough information for now. I might come back
and bother you again if I have more questions. Thanks a lot for your help.

87
Steve Any time, John. You know where I am.




Get some information

What can I do for you?
I wonder whether

Hold on a second

Where do you want to start
Production process


Approximately

How about labor?

Do a study, conduct a study
That makes sense

 

EXERCISES

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of John
and the other the role of Steve.

2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

Where do you receive raw materials?  We have a receiving dock in the back of
the building.

88
How do you move heavy products around?  We use a forklift to move heavy
products around.

Do you package the goods in house?  Yes, we package the products ourselves.

How do you ship our products to the customers?  We use a shipping company.

How do we make our products?  We use an automated system to make
our products.

Who takes care of quality control?  We have a Quality Control department.

Who is in charge of the Production department?  Steve is in charge of the Production
department.

How much inventories do we carry?  We carry a very limited amount of
inventories.

When are our employees required to work  Overtime is required when there is a

overtime? possibility of running behind schedule.
How do you reduce downtime?  By taking good care of our equipment,

and by keeping track of our inventory
level.

3 Comprehension test

a Who is Steve?

b Why does John want to talk to Steve?

c What does John want to talk to Steve about?

d What starts the production process at Lintel?

e What happen to raw materials once they are received?

f Does Lintel deal with a large number of suppliers?

g What is the reason for having a limited number of suppliers?

h How much inventory does Lintel carry?

i How are materials moved from one department to another department?
J How is labor cost calculated?

k How does Steve promote production quality to his employees?

1 How does Steve maintain the excellent production record at Lintel?
m What are the production shifts at Lintel?

n Do employees of both shifts receive equal pay?

4 Discussion

a How do you keep control of inventories in your company?

b Why is quality control so important to a company?

c Should we care to produce perfect merchandises? Why? Why not?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW
ADVERBS
Adverbs are words that describe or modify verbs, adjectives, and other adverbs, while adjectives
are words that describe nouns or pronouns.
Is Jessica well? (Well is an adjective because it describes Jessica
Does Jessica play the piano well? (Well is an adverb because it describes the verb play

89
My Quality Control group works very closely with our suppliers. (Very describes closely
which is an adverb

My kids are rarely sick during the cold seasons. (Rarely describes sick which is an
adjective

Adverbs usually specify how, when, where, and how much when they are used with verbs.

The baby screams loudly. (how
He will come soon. (when

He will be here. (where

He eats a lot. (how much

Formation of adverbs


Most adverbs are formed by adding -/y to an adjective.
close, closely
different, differently

perfect, perfectly

When an adjective ends in -/y, the adverb retains the same form.
daily, daily
early, early

Other adverbs are formed from adjectives ending with -/e by changing -/e into -/y.
simple, simply
ample, amply

Other adverbs are formed from adjectives ending with -y by changing -y into -i then add
-ly.

easy, easily.

busy, busily.

Other adverbs are formed from adjectives ending with a vowel and -/ by adding another -/
and -y.

beautiful, beautifully

cultural, culturally

Other adverbs are simply adverbs by nature. Some of them are
Again. I will do it again with no regret.

Almost. I am almost done with my homework.

Also. I will also eat the strawberry cake.

Already. I already ate my lunch.

Enough. I have enough problems for today.

Just. The plane just landed.

Other adverbs are classified as interrogative adverbs because they are used to ask

questions. They are
Where. Where are you going?

90
Why. Why do you put so much sugar in your coffee?

When. When did you go to France?

Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.
How did Mary play yesterday?
When will John arrive?

What did the baby do when her mother left?

How was she dressed at the party?
Will you visit me again?

Did you finish your homework?
Did you have enough to eat?

Where did you go yesterday?
Why are you so late?

When will I see you again?

When did he leave?

 PPP rr Pree

Mary played well yesterday.
He will arrive soon.

She cried loudly after her mother left.
She dressed very simply.

I will visit you again whenever I am
free.

I have already finished my homework.
Yes, I had enough to eat for lunch.

I went to Dallas yesterday.

I am late because I missed the bus.

I will see you when I come back from
my trip.

He just left.

91
 

 

SIXTEEN
CHANGING A CUSTOMER’S ORDER

 

Situation Jane just received a new purchase order from one of the customers. She tries to
discuss the necessary actions with Lynn.

Jane Lynn, please come to my office. I just received a revised purchase order from one of our
customers.

Lynn [ am here.

Jane Lynn, remember the order we received from Colors House two weeks ago?
Lynn The one for a lot of 500 oak wood windows?

Jane Yes, that is the one. Did we start production on it yet?

Lynn I do not think so since we do not have to make delivery until the twentieth of this month,
another fifteen days.

Jane Good. I just received a revised order from its Purchasing department. They want pine
wood instead of oak wood.

Lynn We have already ordered the oak wood from Lumber House. It will cost us more if we put
in a change of order now.

Jane Don’t worry. Colors House is willing to pay an extra twenty-five percent for the change.
Lynn It is OK then. When do we have to ship the order? Is it still due on the twentieth?

Jane No, they gave us extra time to fill the new order. It is not due until the twenty-fifth of the
month now.

Lynn Did they change the shipping terms? Do we still have to deliver the order, or will they
come here to pick it up?

Jane We still have to take care of the shipping process, and it is still going to Chicago.
Lynn Then I do not have to make any shipping changes other than changing the pickup date.

Jane | think you should put a call in to Trucking Lines as soon as possible. The thirtieth of this
month is a major holiday, and its shipping schedule is going to be very tight.

Lynn True, they might not accommodate our change if they receive our notice too late.

92

 
Jane Oh, here is the change of order from Colors House. You can sign and fax it back to them
after reviewing it.

Lynn I better give a copy of this new order to our Production department. They need to be
aware of the change.

Jane How is our Production department doing?
Lynn It is running on a very tight schedule. We received quite a few orders lately.

Jane I bet all the customers want their orders now or as soon as possible. The Production
department will have to work a lot of overtime this month.

Lynn Overtime already started last week with all the employees in the Assembly department
working an average of two hours overtime per day.

Jane I hope the customers appreciate our quick response time and the fact that we always jump
through hoops to give them whatever they want.

Lynn It does pay to keep up with the customers’ demand. Everybody likes our products and
services. Even though it is sometimes very difficult to please everybody, it is fine with me
because I love this company, and I want to see it prosper.

Jane We can take pride in a job well done. Besides, it makes our job easier also.

Lynn Yes, I would not like to hear people complain. I would hate to deal with unhappy
customers.

Jane It is really stressful to deal with unhappy customers. I doubt that I will be able to relax
even when I get home at the end of the day.

Lynn Me neither. OK, everything is set. I will call Colors House and tell them everything is set
to go.

Jane Thanks for your help, Lynn.

Lynn You are welcome, Jane.

 

EXPRESSIONS

A lot of 500 windows

Start production

Make delivery giao hang

It is due on the twentieth of the month
Change the shipping terms

Put a call in


I better give a copy to

Run on a tight schedule
As soon as possible

Work overtime

Appreciate 

Quick response

Jump through hoops


Please people

Take pride in a job well done
Everything is set

Thanks for your help
 

EXERCISES

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of Jane
and the other the role of Lynn.

2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

Why do we have to put a rush on this project?  Because the customer just changed the
shipping date.

The fifteenth of this month.

The customer wants two dozen instead
of one.

There is no need to ship the package.
The customer will pick it up whenever
we are ready.

Certainly, and as soon as possible.

No, everything is already settled.

When is the new delivery date?
What else did the customer change?

 PP

What is the new shipping arrangement?

Do I need to notify the shipping company?

Do I need to discuss the new terms with
Colors House?

Did Colors House rate us favorably after
the change of order?

Is everything set to g0?

Why are we not ready?

Yes, they did. They were very impressed
with our response time.

No, we need a little more time.

We were delayed by the change of
order.

No, not at all.

Did the change of order cause any
problems?

3 Comprehension test
a Why does he want to come to her office?

94
b What does Colors House want now?

c Why wasn’t production started on Colors House’s previous order?

d Why doesn’t Colors House’s change of order create a problem for Jane’s company?
e Does Lynn need to change the shipping terms?

f Why should Lynn put a call in to Trucking Lines?

g Why should Lynn give a copy of the new order to the Production department?
h What happened in the Production department?

i What is the company’s policy regarding customers’s demand?

J Why does everybody like to work with Lynn’s company?

k What does Lynn think about pleasing all customers?

1 Why does Jane hate to deal with unhappy customers?

4 Discussion

a What should a company’s policy be regarding serving its customers?
b How far are you willing to go in doing your job?

c What can be the causes of customers’s dissatisfaction?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW

ADVERBS

1 Use of adverbs in comparison

Adverbs, like adjectives, can be used to express comparison.

a Comparative form
When two persons or things are compared, we usually add more... than, as...as
or Jess... then.
John built the cabinets more skilfully than James.
Mary can change orders as well as Jane.
This week the freight company is shipping cargo less regularly than last week due to bad
weather.

Note
If the adverb is a one syllable word, we usually replace more with an -er at the end of the
adverb.

Jane works faster than Lynn.

The cabinet shipment came sooner than the window shipment.

Sometimes adverbs do not follow the above rules. For example, we// becomes better, badly
becomes worse.

b Superlative form
When more than two persons or things are compared, we usually add -est to a one syllable
adverOtherwise, add /east or most to an adverb with more than one syllable.

Jane has grown the tallest among the girls.

John handles the equipment the most cautiously.

95
Sometimes adverbs do not follow the above rules. For example, we// becomes best, badly
becomes worst.

2 Placement of adverbs
Place the adverb as close as possible to the word that it modifies to avoid changing the meaning
of the sentence.
My mother only wants te(My mother doesn’t want cookies or coffee. She wants
nothing but tea
Only my mother wants te(My aunt and grandmother do not want tea, but my mother
does

Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

How did John play compared to Tim?

How did the babies behave this morning?

John played more riskily than Tim.
Mary behaved better than Jim this
morning.

Because he did not play as cautiously as
he should have.

This time he handled the situation less
tactfully than last time.

This time Helen played worse than last
time.

He ran faster than Kevin this time.
John read the best this time around.
This is the first time that Susan ran the
worst since she joined the team.

He drove most cautiously during the
rain.

Why was he punished?

How did he handle the situation this time?
How did Helen play this time?

How did he run this time?

Who was the best reader in this contest?
Who finished last this time?

 Frere SF SF SF SS

How did he drive in the rain?

96
 

 

SEVENTEEN
PROMOTION

 

Situation Tom was just promoted to a managerial position, and he is concerned about the fact
that he has never managed people before. Lucy is trying to reassure Tom that he will be doing
fine in the new position.

Tom I have really good news today. Oh! I am so happy.

Lucy What is your good news, Tom?

Tom I got a promotion today. You are looking at the new supervisor of the Marketing
department.

Lucy Wow, this is great news! I am so glad for you. So, you will start your new job this coming
Monday?

Tom No, I need to finish my current projects in the Sales department before I move over to
Marketing. I probably will start my new job a week from Monday.

Lucy You have a lot of experience with this company. They will be very helpful to you in your
new position.

Tom I know. However, I have never supervised people before. I hope I will be able to cope with
all the new responsibilities.

Lucy You will do fine. You are a natural leader, and you will lead well.
Tom You think so, Lucy?

Lucy I know so. You are always good at coaching people. You led your soccer team to victory
last year, didn’t you?

Tom Leading a soccer team and leading a Marketing department are not quite the same.

Lucy Yes, they are in a way. First, being a supervisor means building a good team where
members work well with each other, right?

Tom Right. If members of a team do not understand their own tasks as well as the tasks of their
teammates, it will be chaos.

Lucy Second, a supervisor needs to identify his employees’ working habits and the job
requirements in order to build a better work environment, right?

Tom Yes. In order for me to improve my employees’ performance, I need to understand their
working habits and their skills. Then, I can give them a little bit of coaching if the need arises.

97

 
Lucy Third, you need to find out what motivates your employees, right?

Tom Yes again. Everybody needs to be motivated, either to find a better way of doing one’s job
or putting in extra effort to perform better.

Lucy Things will not always run smoothly. There will be problem employees. So, fourth, you
need to know how to coach, or how to counsel, or even how to discipline, right?

Tom Right. This is the worst part of being a supervisor. You need to be strong enough to cope
with problem employees, to be wise enough to counsel them, and even be “mean” enough to
discipline them.

Lucy Things will change, and your department needs to be able to adapt to changes, right?

Tom Yes, technological changes happen everyday. I need to get my employees ready for
changes as well as to reinforce the need for change sometimes.

Lucy And if you come up with new ideas, you need to be able to “sell” your ideas to your boss
and your employees, right?

Tom There is no need to come up with new ideas if you cannot convince people of their value.
Lucy You need to set yourself out as an example for your employees. Therefore, you should
have a good understanding of your responsibilities, work hard and work well with others, be alert
of changes, and last but not least, understand the values and goals of your company.

Tom If I want to lead, then I need to prove that I am a good leader.

Lucy Those are the things that you need to do in your new position. Even though they are not
exactly the same as coaching a soccer team, you will do fine. All you need to do is change your
leadership style a little bit in this new environment.
Tom Thanks for the note of confidence, Lucy.
Lucy You are welcome, Tom.
Have good news
Get a promotion
I am so glad for you
This coming Monday
Move over to
Have a lot of experience
Be ready forYou will do fine
Coaching people
Build a good team
It is not quite the same
Job requirement
Motivate people
Thanks for the note of confidence
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

G [have good news. I just got a promotion.  That is great! Congratulations, Tom!

Were you expecting this promotion?  No, but I have been hoping for it for
quite a long time.
Did it come with a good raise?  Yes, I was very pleased with the salary
increase.
Are you expected to take on new  Yes, a lot of new responsibilities.
responsibilities?
When will this promotion go into effect?  It will go into effect this coming
Monday.
Are you ready for this job change?  Yes, I think I am.
How did your coworkers take the news?  I guess they were pleased for me.
Have you thought about ways to improve  Not yet, but I will use this weekend to
the productivity of your department? come up with a really good game plan.
What should you do in your new position?  I should try to motivate, to coach, and to
maximize my employees’ abilities.
Are you going to the seminar for  [have already signed up for thatnewly promoted supervisors? seminar.

3 Comprehension test

a What happened to Tom?

b When will Tom move over to the new position?

c What is Tom’s concern about the new position?

d Why does Lucy think that Tom will succeed in his new position?

e What are the similarities between leading a soccer team and leading the Marketing
department?

f Why should Tom identify his employees’ working habits?

g What should a supervisor do with a problem employee?

h What should Tom do to cope with technological changes?

i What should Tom do with his new ideas?

J What should Tom do to set himself out as an example for his employees?
k What should Tom do to his leadership skill in the new environment?

4 Discussion

a What is your definition of a good supervisor?

b What will you do if you are promoted to the position of supervisor?
c In your opinion, is it easy to lead?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW
PREPOSITIONS
Prepositions are words that express the relationship in terms of time, direction or location of a
word or phrase to another word or phrase. They include in, among, between, at, with, beside,
besides, behind, into, of, by, to, from, over, against, after.

The dining room is built between the kitchen and living room. (Location

I will start my new job the week after this coming Monday. (Time

Notes

At is used with things, with is used with people when expressing feelings.
Jane is angry with me.
My teacher was angry at the result of the vote.

Between is used when there are only two persons or things, among is used when there are more
than two persons or things.

The books were placed between Jane and John.

The toys were divided among the four friends.

When used with a verb, the combination of the verb and the preposition usually gives a meaning
different from the meaning of the verb alone.
There is no need to come up with new ideas if you cannot convince people of their value.
They laughed at the idea.
I must look into the proposal before I decide.

100
Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

Are you going to go over the with me?  Are you asking whether I am going to

Are you going to look after your brother?
Are you going to sign up for the course?
Are you going to pick up your son after school?

Are you going to hang out with your friends

after work?
Are you going to keep on singing?

Are you going to show up at the party?

Are you going to put up with his tantrums?
Are you going to get up at 500AM tomorrow?

Were you cut off in the middle of the phone

conversation?

Are you going to look up the new word?

Are you going to take up golf this summer?

A

review the with you?

 Are you asking whether I am going to

take care of my brother?

 Are you asking whether I am going to

enroll in the course?

 Are you asking whether I am going to

go and get my son after school?

 Are you asking whether I am going to

spend time with my friends after work?

 Are you asking whether I am going to

continue to sing?

 Are you asking whether I am going to

be present at the party?

 Are you asking whether I am going to

tolerate his tantrums?

 Are you asking whether I am going to

rise from bed at 500AM?

 Are you asking whether I was

disconnected in the middle of the
phone conversation?

 Are you asking whether I am going to

search for the new word in a book?

 Are you asking whether I am going to

begin to play golf this summer?

101
 

 

EIGHTEEN
MEETING PEOPLE

 

Situation 4 seminar on Management is held at the Hilton hotel. Tom and Ana are among the
many attendants. They try to strike a conversation during break-time.

Tom Hi, I am Tom.

An I am Ana.

Tom This is a pretty good seminar so far, huh?

An Yes, I like it. Prentice Hall always delivers good seminars. All of its speakers are very
well-known and also very knowledgeable in the subject matter. Did you attend the seminar on
Leadership in Long Beach last January?

Tom No, I missed that one. Who was the speaker?

An John Miller. He is the author of The Seven Habits of a Good Leader. It was a great
seminar. John gave us tons of information on how to deal with employees. You should sign up
for that seminar next year.

Tom I will. lam very interested in the subject of Leadership. I was promoted to the position of
Supervisor a few months ago, and I have to manage a staff of ten people. It can be quite a

difficult situation sometimes. It is the reason why I am here today.

An Same here. I only have seven people reporting to me; yet, sometimes I feel like pulling my
hair out. I need to find a way to create harmony and cooperation within my department.

Tom I also need to learn how to better manage my workload. I always run out of time. It seems
like the days are getting shorter and shorter.

An You need to sign up for the Learn How To Delegate seminar. It is coming next month.

Tom Let’s see whether I will have any free time next month. I know sometime next month I
will have to go to Texas on a business trip.

An By the way, what is your company doing?
Tom Oh, we produce office equipment such as calculators and fax machines. How about yours?
An We are in the service business. We specialize in repairing computers.

Tom How was business lately?

102

 
An It is pretty slow right now. Just like any other company, we are quite affected by this
slowing economy.

Tom Business is slow with my company too. However, people are saying that it should pick up
any time now.

An Let’s hope so. We need to keep our employees busy.

Tom I have some very talented employees, and I would like to keep their minds sharp. They
tend to be bored when things slow down, and that is not good.

An Yes, nothing is more frustrating than sitting idle with nothing to do. The days seem so
long.

Tom I hate those types of days. Luckily, it is not that bad in our company. Besides, we are in
the process of updating our computer system, and we can use this slow period to finish the
process.

An Good for you. Oh, 1030 AM already. I guess our break-time is over.

Tom The topic of the next session, How To Make Positive Impression On Others And Gain
Visibility And Influence In The Workplace, seems to be really interesting. We better not miss any
part of it. Let’s get back to our seats so that we can learn how to bring out the best in ourselves as
well as our employees.




 

EXERCISES

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of Tom
and the other the role of Ana.

2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following greetings or questions and answers. Ask
them to come up with similar greetings or questions and answers.

G Hello, I am Peter  Hi, lam Jane.

G Good morning, Jane. Good morning, John.

How are you? Fine, thanks. And you?

Are you from Vietnam? No, I am from America.

Where are you from? I am from France.

G Bye, Jennifer. See you later, Tom.

G Nice meeting you, Peter. Same here, Jane.

Is he the president of ABC Company? No, he is the Engineering Director.

Are you here for the seminar? Yes, I am here for the seminar.

Where do they hold the Management seminar? The Management seminar is right next
door.

Oh, it was very informative.

I go to this seminar to improve my
management skills.

How was the seminar?
Why did you sign up for this seminar?

3 Comprehension test

a What is the name of the seminar that Tom and Ana are attending?
b What is the name of the organization that is offering the seminar?
c Who wrote the book The Seven Habits of a Good Leader?

d What happened to Tom a few months ago?

e How many people is Tom supervising?

f What does Ana want to have within her department?

g Why should Tom learn to better manage his workload?

h What are the products of Tom’s company?

104
i What is the specialty of Ana’s company?

J How is the economy at the moment?

k What happen to Tom’s employees when they are not busy?
1 Why does Ana hate a slow day?

m What is Tom’s department currently doing?

n What does Tom hope to learn in the next session?

4 Discussion

a Why do people go to seminars?

b What is Leadership? Why is it so important?
c How. Can slow economy affect us?

d How do you like to spend your day at work?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW
CONJUNCTIONS
Conjunctions are words that join words to words, phrases to phrases, or clauses to clauses. There
are
- Coordinating conjunctions
- Subordinating conjunctions

Coordinating conjunctions
Coordinating conjunctions connect sentence elements. Coordinating conjunctions are used to
connect similar elements, to indicate a choice, a contrast, a cause or a result.

1 Connecting elements and, as well as, not only... but also.
I need to find a way to create harmony and cooperation within my department.
She needs to not only cook dinner but also clean the house.

2 Indicating a choice or, either... or, neither... nor.
My employees can either work on updating the computer system or stay idle.
Neither your mom nor I can pick you up at school today.

3 Indicating a contrast but, still, yet.
I have very talented employees, still they can’t function when they are bored.
The doll is ugly, yet the baby likes it.

4 Indicating a cause or result for, so, then, as, yet.
Tom went to the Management seminar for his own benefits.
The drivers were careless, so they had an accident.

Note
Words or sentence elements connected by coordinating conjunctions should be of the same type.
For example, nouns should be connected to nouns and adjectives to adjectives.

I took the children and the dogs to the fair.

John is both intelligent and kind.

105
Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.
Will they go to the movies and John’s party?

Who will take me to school?
Who is going to sing tonight?
Does she need the book?

Why did you go to the seminar?

What will you do after work?

What can she do after school?

Is it too late to go to the market?
Why do you work so late tonight?

How does she feel?


 No, they will either go to the movies or
to John’s party.

Neither your mom nor I will take you

to school. You will have to walk to
school.

John and Jane will sing tonight.

She does not need the book, still she will
buy it.

I went to the seminar not only for my
own benefit, but also for my

employees’ benefit.

I need to clean my house as well as cook
dinner for my family.

She can either do her homework or clean
the house.

Yes, it is too late to go to the market,

but I am going anyway.

I work late today so I can take off early
tomorrow.

She feels sad and worried.

106
SECTION Il

ACADEMIC LIFE
 

 

NINETEEN
APPLYING TO COLLEGE

 

Situation Charlotte and Michael have just finished taking the SAT test and are talking about it.
They also discuss the next steps of the process of applying for college.

Michael That test was so long! Four hours! I really do not understand why we have to take
this test anyway. Are our grade point averages (GPAs not good enough for college?

Charlotte That test did seem long, didn’t it? But since the curriculum of one high school is
slightly different from another high school, the SAT test allows the colleges to consider each
student equally. Although one student might have taken different classes from another student,
all high school students take the same SAT test.

Michael I suppose that makes sense. Either way, I really hope I do not have to take that test
again!

Charlotte Same here. Well, we will just have to wait and see. The scores will be out in a few
weeks. Anyways, have you gotten your recommendation letters yet?

Michael I have asked Mrs. Smith for one already, and I am thinking about asking Mr. Johnson
for another one. I liked both their classes and I think they got to know me better than my other
teachers, so hopefully the letters will be well-written. What about you?

Charlotte I have also asked Mrs. Smith for a letter. Do you know Mr. Lawson? I would like
to get a recommendation letter from him. I hope he remembers me as I have not had a class with
him since last year. I am not sure who else I could have asked.

Michael Well, at least we each have one letter. Mrs. Smith is the best, isn’t she? I wish I could
have another class with her, but this is our last semester, and after that it is graduation!

Charlotte I agree. Mrs. Smith really enjoys teaching, and that definitely helps her students to
enjoy learning.

Michael What colleges are you thinking of applying to? Have you visited any campuses yet?
Charlotte I am still considering whether I should stay close to home or go to an out-of-state

school. I have toured the Stanford campus and the people there were very friendly. I have also
visited Notre Dame, the university in IndianWhat about you? Have you toured any campuses

yet?

Michael I want to stay close to home so I am hoping to go to either a California State
University or a University of California.

Charlotte Which one? There is practically one or the other in each of the big cities.

108

 
Michael Perhaps UCLA, the University of California, Los Angeles or CSULB, the California
State University, Long Beach. But I am not too worried about getting into a college just yet. I
am more worried about this SAT test at the moment!

Charlotte I understand how you feel. However, we should still consider what should be done
next. It will be bad if we fall behind and don’t make it into college by next fall. Have you
decided what to study yet? I’m thinking about majoring in English myself.

Michael English is definitely a possibility. I was thinking about becoming an English teacher
like Mrs. Smith. But I was also considering majoring in Biological Sciences.

Charlotte Why? English and Biological Sciences are two radically different areas of study.
What would you do with a degree in Biological Sciences?

Michael I am also wondering whether I should pursue medicine. It may be too early to decide
yet, but if I want to become a doctor, the classes I would take as a Biological Sciences student
would fulfil most requirements for medical school. But like I said, it is too early to determine
anything yet. I am just hoping to get into a college!

Charlotte I do not think you have to worry about getting into college. Still, let’s just keep
trying our best!



 

EXERCISES
1 Conversation Practice

109
Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of Michael
and the other the role of Charlotte.

2 Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

How did you do on the SAT test?  I was not happy with my performance.
Do we have to take any other college  I don’t think so. Students have to take
entrance exams? either the SAT or ACT test.
What does the SAT test cover?  It covers Reading, Writing, Chemistry,
Physics, Biology, and Mathematics.
What else do you need besides the SAT test? = Recommendation letters from my
teachers or my employer are also very
helpful.
What do prestigious colleges usually require  Prestigious colleges also require the
for admission? applicant to go through a personal
interview.
Did you apply to only one college?  No, like most students, I applied to many
colleges.
What is the school known for?  Penn is well-known for many of its
schools, among them the School of
Business.
How are you going to finance your studies?  They applied for the work-study
program and a loan.
Do you plan to stay on-campus or off-campus?  I plan to rent an apartment off-campus.
Are you going to join any on-campus  I plan to join the American Institute of
activities? Architects organisation.
Why do you want to do that?  I want to expose myself to the world of

architecture.

3 Comprehension test

a How long did the SAT test take?

b Why should students take the SAT test?

c Is the test score available immediately after the students take the SAT test?
d Why did Michael ask Mrs. Smith and Mr. Johnson for a recommendation letter?
e From whom does Charlotte want to get a recommendation letter?

f Why can’t Michael take another class with Mrs. Smith?

g What are Charlotte’s thoughts about going to college?

h Which colleges is Michael considering for his future schooling?

i Why should they start thinking about colleges?

j What fields of studies is Michael considering?

k Why is Michael considering a major in Biological Sciences?

4 Discussion

110
a What types of exams are you required to take after finishing high school?
b What are the requirements for admission to colleges in your country?
c What do you want to study? Why?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW

CONJUNCTIONS

Subordinating conjunctions
Subordinating conjunctions are used to join a dependent clause to the main clause. These
conjunctions are used to indicate time, condition, concession, reason, intention or result, or place.

1 Indicate time as, as soon as, while, until, since, before, after, when, whenever, once.
He ran as fast as he could after he saw his parents at the gate.

2 Indicate condition if, unless.
The Biological Sciences classes would fulfill most requirements for medical school if I
want to become a doctor.

3 Indicate concession although, however, even though.
Susan cleans the house even though she does not get paid.

4 Indicate reason because, as, since.
The SAT test allows colleges to consider each student equally since the curriculum of
high schools are not always the same.

5 Indicate intention or result so that, that, in order that.
She is studying very hard so that she can pass the exam next week.

6 Indicate place where, wherever.
My sister follows me wherever I go.

Note

When a sentence has more than one clause, the main clause of the sentence is called the
independent clause and the subordinate clause is known as the dependent clause. Independent
clauses have meaning by themselves because they express a complete thought, while dependent
clauses can not stand by themselves because a complete thought is not present.

Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

When will you go to school?  I will go to school as soon as I finish
my breakfast.

How long will you stay home?  I will stay home until my broken arm
is healed.

111
Would you go to a party with me tonight?
Why won’t you help him clean his room?

Why are you angry with John?

Why did you run to school?
Do you like to go to college?

Why did you apply to college?

Why did he take so many classes?

When did you read the newspaper?



 Fr PF PP

I would go if I come home on time.

I will not help him clean his room unless
he apologizes.

I am angry with him because he was
mean to his sister.

I ran to school so that I could be on time.
No, I do not; however, I will go to
college to please my parents.

I have applied to college to please my
parents even though I had made some
other arrangements.

He took quite a few classes last semester
since he wanted to graduate early.

I read the newspaper while waiting for
Mary to finish her piano lesson.

112
 

 

TWENTY
GIVING A SPEECH

 

Situation Jennifer is going to give a speech on Global Warming, and she is quite nervous about
the whole process. Mary is trying to calm Jennifer down by giving her some tips on how to
deliver a good speech.

Jennifer I will have to give a presentation on global warming on Friday, and I am so nervous.
Mary There are a lot of things you can do to make you feel more confident and less nervous.
Jennifer What should I do, Mary?

Mary First of all, you need to understand the subject matter thoroughly. You need to know what
is global warming, what causes global warming, and what people should do to abate the effects

of global warming.

Jennifer I have done a lot of research on the subject, and I know I can answer any questions I
will receive from the audience.

Mary The next thing that you need is an outline of your presentation. You should think about
how to effectively present the subject matter.

Jennifer You mean what I should talk about, or more precisely the sequence of my
presentation?

Mary Yes, what you should present first, second, third...

Jennifer If that is the case, then I already have an outline. To make it easy for my audience to
follow the presentation, I intend to post the outline on the board at all time during my speech.

Mary Good idea! By the way, do you have any facts to back you up? For example, change of
climate, yearly disasters...

Jennifer No, I have not thought about that. I better get some statistics from the Internet. I
should not have any problems since the Internet has all kinds of data.

Mary Good. It is easier to convince people and to hold their attention with actual datIt would
be even better if you show some pictures along the way. Do you have any?

Jennifer No, it is another thing to add to my 7o Do list. I guess I will need at least two or three
pictures to persuade people about the dangers of global warming.

Mary Pictures will keep your audience from being bored. In order for you to succeed, you need
to keep them interested and involved.

113

 
Jennifer What else do I need? Is there anything else I can do to help me relax and be at ease
during my presentation?

Mary You need to practice your presentation. Just pretend that you are standing in front of your
audience and start to give your speech.

Jennifer Pretending is one thing; actually giving a speech is another thing.

Mary Think positive. Tell yourself that you can do it without any problems.

Jennifer I guess I can look at this as a presentation of my point of view to my friends. I mean a
lot of my friends. I mean all the friends that I have made since kindergarten, plus all the relatives
that I have on both my mother and father’s sides.

Mary If you are really prepared, it will be a piece of cake. You will be able to speak with ease
and confidence, and you will be amazed by how well you can express yourself.

Jennifer I need to do this presentation really well. This is my first presentation in front of a big
audience, and it is so important to me.

Mary This is only the beginning, Jennifer. Being able to express your ideas with confidence and
clarity is one of the best skills to possess.

Jennifer You are absolutely right. I will take time to practice and to learn to relax and express
myself really well. Wish me luck, Mary!

Mary I know you. You can do it. Good luck, Jennifer!

 

EXPRESSIONS

Give a presentation
 

EXERCISES

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of Mary
and the other the role of Jennifer.

2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

What is the topic of your presentation?  My presentation is on global warming.

Is it a group presentation?  No, it is an individual presentation.

Why did you choose this topic?  I chose this topic because it is a major
issue in our time.

 I will rely heavily on statistics and
graphs to keep my audience interested.

 Yes, handouts will be distributed to help
the audience understand the subject

How are you going to present it?

Are you going to distribute any handouts?

matter better.

Is it going to be interactive?  I will try to get the audience involved,
and they can ask any questions they
like.

How long is your presentation?  It is going to be half-an-hour long.

How will your teacher grade the  30 points for content, 15 points for oral

presentation? presentation, and 5 points for audience

reaction.

3 Comprehension test

a How does Jennifer feel about giving a presentation on global warming?
b What should Jennifer do to make her feel less nervous and more at ease?
c How confident is Jennifer about answering the audience’s questions?

d How can an outline help Jennifer?

e How can the Internet help Jennifer?

115
f How can Jennifer convince her audience and hold their attention?

g What should Jennifer add to her To Do list?

h What should Jennifer do in order to achieve success?

i Why should Jennifer pretend that she is giving a speech to her audience?

J How many times did Jennifer give a presentation to a big audience in the past?
k What is one of the best skills that people should possess?

1 What does Jennifer intent to do before speech day?

4 Discussion

a What is global warming? What are the effects of global warming?

b Why are communication skills so important in life?

c What else can Jennifer do to feel more confident and less anxious?

d How well will you do if you have to give a presentation to a large audience?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW

CLAUSES

A clause is a group of words which includes a subject and a predicate. The subject is either the
person/thing that is doing an action, or the person, thing or idea being described. The predicate
provides information about the subject, and usually comes after the subject.

Subject Predicate
Jennifer gives a speech
Jennifer is nervous
What Jennifer said was correct

A clause can be an independent (main clause or a dependent clause. Independent clauses have
meaning by themselves because they express a complete thought; and therefore they are
considered complete sentences. Dependent clauses can not stand by themselves because a
complete thought is not present. They are not complete sentences and they always need to be
connected to an independent clause.

Independent clause Dependent clause
Jennifer gave a speech afier she had done a lot of research
The baby cries louder when she sees her mother

Essential/Nonessential clauses
Dependent clauses can be essential or nonessential.

Essential clauses are necessary to a sentence because their absence can completely change the
meaning of the sentence.
All women who are pregnant should not drink alcohol. (Only pregnant women should not
drink alcohol
All women should not drink alcohol. (Pregnant women and all other women should not
drink alcohol. All females should not drink alcohol

116
Nonessential dependent clauses add information that is not essential and can be deleted without

distorting the meaning of the sentence. Usually, nonessential clauses are set off by commas.
Jennifer, who is very nervous, has to give a speech today. (The nonessential dependent
clause who is very nervous can be deleted without distorting the fact that Jennifer has to

give a speech today

Mrs. Anderson, who has three kids, always wakes up early to prepare breakfast for the
whole family. (The nonessential dependent clause who has three kids can be deleted
without distorting the fact that Mrs. Anderson always wakes up early to prepare breakfast

 

for the whole family

Types of dependent clauses

Dependent clauses can serve various purposes. They can act as an adjective, noun or adverb.
The global warming topic, which is very complex, was selected by Jennifer. (Which is
very complex modifies Global Warming topic and is an adjective clause

I don’t believe what he said. (What he said is the object of don’t believe and is a noun

clause

Tran after he had blown the whistle. (After he had blown the whistle modifies ran and is

an adverb clause

Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.
What is a clause?

Are all clauses the same?
What is an independent clause?
What is the main difference between an

essential and a nonessential dependent
clause?

 A clause is a group of words which
includes a subject and a predicate.

 No, there are independent or main
clauses and dependent clauses.

 An independent clause is a clause that
has meaning by itself because it
expresses a complete thought.

 Nonessential dependent clauses can be

deleted without distorting the meaning of
the sentence.

117
 

 

TWENTY-ONE
STUDYING FOR A TEST

 

Situation Two college students, Mary and Alexis, are studying for an upcoming sociology test.
Mary Hey Alexis, I am glad you decided to come over to my house to study for our upcoming
exam. The sociology test seems to be very difficult. I have studied all the materials, but I am
still not confident about my performance this Friday.

Alexis Yes, this test is going to be hard, but since you have covered all the materials, you
should be adequately prepared. I have read all the chapters, but I have not studied the notes from
the lectures. Let’s do a review starting from one and then we will work our way up
through three. Does that sound OK to you?

Mary That sounds like a good ideLet’s start!

Alexis Well, in one, the book covers the three fundamental points of view on sociology.
Do you know what these three points of view are?

Mary Yes, I think Ido. They are the Functionalist, the Conflict, and the Interactionist
perspectives. Is that right?

Alexis Yes! You got it! Good job!
Mary Thanks, Alexis! But what does each perspective believe?

Alexis Well, you know what the Functionalist Perspective talks about. It is the easiest to
remember.

Mary Ohyes! That one talks about how everyone has a function in society. It states that
everyone has a function in life where their collective actions will be put together for the benefit
of society.

Alexis That is correct! No need to ask, but I think you understand very well what the other two
perspectives are all about, right?

Mary Yes, I can explain very precisely what they are. There is no need for me to do a review
onthem. Let’s finish the other chapters.

Alexis Well, how about you quiz me on two.

Mary Sure. Well, in two, the book discusses Max Weber. Who was Max Weber and
what was his opinion on the issue of organization?

Alexis Well, Max Weber was one of the founders of the modern study of sociology. He
believed that organizing requires communication, coordination, and control.

118

 
Mary That is correct! You are doing really well too, Alexis!

Alexis Thanks Mary! I feel pretty good about two. Let’s take a break right now and
we will finish going over the main parts of three when we come back.

Mary three is the most difficult chapter. I have read the twice on top of
reviewing all my lecture notes, and it is still quite confusing. Maybe I just made a big deal out of
nothing.

Alexis three covers quite a few different concepts. It might be better for us to write
down each concept and then carefully do a comparison of their similarities and differences. I bet
our teacher will ask us to write a short essay on each concept as part of the exam.

Mary Do you think so? I better get myself prepared since we only have an hour to finish the

exam. I am never good at writing as I always have difficulties putting my thoughts on paper. I
have worked so hard to overcome this problem, but I still have not improved much. Maybe, I

have a tendency of over analyzing things.

Alexis I do not think that is your problem. It is probably a case of anxiety. Try to relax and take
it easy. Things get worse when you do not have control of yourself.

Mary I know, I know. However, I cannot help it. It is good that you suggested we take a break.
I need to have a clear mind when we start on three. Let’s go find something to eat and
listen to some soothing music for a while.

Alexis OK, Mary.

 

EXERCISES

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of Mary
and the other the role of Alexis

2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

What kind of tests do you have in this course?  I have 3 quizzes, 1 Mid-Term exam and
one Final exam.

What kind of test is this one?  It is the Mid-Term exam.

How many chapters does it cover? It covers what we have studied so far,

and it includes the first six chapters.

The teacher will give a combination of

essays and multiple-choice questions.

It is strictly based on percentage scale.

What kind of test format will the teacher use?

Is the course grade based on a curve or on
percentage scale?

What is your grade in this course so far? So far I have missed getting an A by 5

points.

I have spent a considerable amount of

time studying for this test.

 It is a two-hour test, from 9AM to 11AM.

How much time did you spend studying
for this test?
How much time do you have for this test?


3 Comprehension test

a Why did Alexis come to Mary’s house?

b What kind of test will they have on Friday?

c How many chapters will be covered on the test?

d What is the easiest perspective to remember?

e Who was Max Weber?

f How does Alexis feel about two?

g Why does Mary think that three is the most difficult chapter?

h What should Mary and Alexis do in order to have a better understanding of three?
i What might be on the test for three?

J Why should Mary work hard on the concepts discussed in three?
k According to Alexis, what kind of problem does Mary have?

120
4 Discussion

a How do you usually feel before a major test? What should you do to get yourself ready for it?
b Is it necessary for teachers to give out exams? Why? Why not?

c What was the most difficult thing you had to overcome as a student?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW

SENTENCES

A sentence is a series of words put together to convey a complete thought, to ask a question or to
describe a situation. In general, a sentence has both a subject and a predicate.

A sentence can have more than one subject and more than one predicate.
The Functionalist perspective states that everyone has a function in society.
My mother thinks that I should leave for the theater while my brother is asleep.

1 Compound sentences

When a sentence includes more than one clause, it is called a compound sentence. Usually a
compound sentence includes more than one independent clause and the clauses are linked
together by a conjunction such as but, yet, while, and, or, so or paired conjunctions such as
either... or, neither... nor, not only... but also, both... and.

Functionalists talk about people's function in society while Interactionists focus on small
group’s interaction. (First independent clause Functionalists talk about people’s function
in society, second independent clause /nteractionists focus on small group’s interaction

Either he can go to a ball game, or he can watch a movie on Friday. (First independent
clause He can go to a ball game on Friday, second independent clause He can watch a
movie on Friday

2 Complex sentences

When a sentence includes an independent clause and at least one dependent clause, it is called a

complex sentence.
two, which discusses Max Weber, will be on this Friday test. (Independent
clause two will be on this Friday test, dependent clause which discusses Max
Weber

3 Affirmative/Negative sentences
A sentence can be affirmative or negative. An affirmative sentence confirms a situation or a
condition while a negative sentence refutes a situation or condition.

Mary does understand three. (Affirmative

Mary does not understand three. (Negative

You may go out now. (Affirmative

You may not go out now. (Negative

121
4 Interrogative sentences
A sentence can be used to ask a question, to seek clarification or to express doubt or surprise.
Interrogative sentences always end with a question mark.

My youngest son can count up to one hundred. (Affirmative

Can your youngest son count up to one hundred? (Question

Your son can count up to one hundred? (Express doubt or surprise

Your son can count up to one hundred, can’t he? (Ask for clarification

Note
Interrogative sentences secking clarification can be formed in two different ways
1 To seek an affirmative answer, start with an affirmative sentence.
Your son can count up to one hundred, can't he? (The expected answer is “Yes, he can’

2 To seek a negative answer, start with a negative sentence.
Your son can’t count up to one hundred, can he? (The expected answer is “No, he can’t

Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

What is a sentence?  A sentence is a series of words put

together to convey a complete thought,
to ask a question, or to describe a
situation.

What is a compound sentence?  It is a sentence that includes more than
one clause. It usually includes more
than one independent clause, and the

independent clauses are linked together
by a conjunction.

What is a complex sentence?  It is a sentence that includes an
independent clause and at least one
dependent clause.

Do you understand two?  Yes, I understand two.

Do you have a test every week?  No, I do not have a test every week.

Can you review three with me?  Yes, I can review three with you.

You are going to review three  Yes, lam going to review three

with me, aren’t you? with you.

You have finished all three chapters,  Yes, I have finished all three chapters.

haven’t you?

You did not understand three, did you?  No, I did not understand three.

four is not on the test, is it?  No, four is not on the test.

You have taken the SAT test?  Yes, I took the SAT test last month.

Mary had no problems with the essays  No, she had no problems putting her

this time? thoughts on paper this time.

122
 

 

TWENTY-TWO
BOOK CONVERSATION

 

Situation Lisa is talking to Jackie about the author, John Grisham, and his books.
Lis Hey Jackie, how are you doing today?

Jackie I am good! I just got out of my psychology lecture. It was so boring! I am glad Jam
done for the day. How are you doing? Did you just get out of class too?

Lis No, I have been out of class since early this afternoon, and I have been reading this new
book I just bought. Have you ever heard of the author John Grisham?

Jackie Yeah! John Grisham is a lawyer who has written a lot of books based on his knowledge
and experience with the legal system like The Client. His books are very easy to read, and they
give a lot of information on how the legal system works.

Lis Yeah, The Client is one of my favorite books! I love Mark Sway and Reggie Love, the
two main characters of the novel. For an eleven-year-old kid, Mark is old beyond his years and
so streetwise. John Grisham’s special sense of humor has made his characters very entertaining
and the book much more interesting to read. Have you read The Chamber?

Jackie The Chamber is a pretty good book too. The story about a grandson who tried to save
the grandfather he has never really known gave me an insight on how the legal system works in
the case of capital punishment. This story was somber, and it was written in a more serious tone.

Lis John Grisham really knows how to adapt his writing style to each situation. That is
probably one of the reasons for his success.

Jackie John Grisham’s success is an example of the importance of education. Even though his
parents were poor and did not have a decent education, his mother put a lot of emphasis on his
education and pushed him to go to college.

Lis I have to agree with you on that. Education is one of the best tools to achieve success in
life. That is the reason why we are still in school, right?

Jackie Right. But, why the sudden interest in John Grisham, Lisa?

Lis Well, I read his first book, and I found it very interesting. So, I kept on reading his books.
I already have a collection of all his work.

Jackie He has written at least twenty books. Did you read all of them? Did you have that much
free time?

Lis No, I only read his legal fiction books. I have not touched any of his non-legal fiction or
his non-fiction books.

123

 
Jackie I see that you are very interested in learning about the legal system.

Lis Yes, very much. I find it fascinating. However, not enough to change my major from
psychology to law yet.

Jackie Maybe you should follow John Grisham’s example. He is a lawyer, and he writes novels
about the legal system. You can finish your studies in psychology, and then write novels based
on your expertise in psychology.

Lis That is a good ideHowever, do you think I am creative enough to be able to weave all
sorts of stories like John Grisham? That would require a lot of talent, and I do not know whether
T have it in me.

Jackie You never know unless you try. Anyways, people say, “where there is a will, there is a
way,” right?

Lis And, there is also writer’s block. Those moments when you sit in front of the computer,
ready to put your story in writing, and yet, your mind is completely blank. You keep on trying
and trying, and nothing comes. I mean, absolutely nothing.

Jackie Still, you never know unless you try, LisOh, it is almost 3 o’clock! I need to run, or I
will miss the bus. See you later, Lisa!

Lis Bye, Jackie! Talk to you later!

 

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of Lisa,
and another the role of Jackie.

2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

What kind of book is it?  It is a non-fiction book about last year
tsunami.

Is John Richardson the author of the book?  No, this one was written by Charles

Langson.

Is it one of the Best Seller books of the year? — Yes, it is one of them.

Who is the publisher?  It was published by Prentice Hall.

What is the story about?  It is the story of a family who has
gone through and survived the tsunami
physically and mentally.

Do they have a lot of books on the tsunami?  Quite a few books were written on this
subject. However, I do not remember
their titles.

When did the book come out? It was put into circulation in March.

Do they offer both hardcover and paperback Yes, it came out in hardcover and

editions? paperback. The hardcover edition is
much more expensive though.

Didn’t they make a movie out of this book?  Ido not think so since it just came out.

Did somebody recommend this book to you? — ‘It is a book required for my sociology
class.

How much did it cost?  I bought a paperback, so it did not cost
too much.

 Pe

3 Comprehension test

a What was Jackie doing before she meets Lisa?

b How was Jackie’s psychology class?

c What has Lisa been doing since early afternoon?

d Who is John Grisham?

e What does Jackie think about John Grisham’s books?
f Who is Mark Sway?

g Why does Lisa like the novel The Client?

h What is one of the reasons for John Grisham’s success?

125
i Who has contributed to John Grisham’s success?

g What kinds of books does John Grisham write?

k Does Lisa have a complete collection of John Grisham’s work?

1 According to Jackie, what should Lisa do after she finishes school?
m What does Lisa think about Jackie’s suggestion?

4 Discussion

a What type of books do you like to read in your spare time? Why?
b What do you expect to gain from reading books? Why?

c Why should we read?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW

PHRASES

Phrases are different from sentences and clauses since they usually do not contain a subject ora
predicate, and do not reflect a complete thought. They are a combination of words that add detail
to a sentence and make it more descriptive. Phrases can be categorized as

Prepositional phrases

Prepositional phrases usually give information about when, where, how or why.
Lisa will try to understand the legal system before attempting to write a legal fiction
book. (Before attempting to write a legal fiction book is a prepositional phrase because it
contains the preposition before, and it tells us when Lisa will attempt to write the book
You will find the light at the end of the tunnel. (At the end of the tunnel is a prepositional
phrase because it contains the preposition at, and it tells us where we can find the light

Infinitive phrases
Infinitive phrases always have an infinitive which is the combination of the word fo and the base
form of a verAn infinitive can be placed in various positions in a sentence.
To be able to write a fiction novel is Lisa’s most earnest dream. (To be able to write a
fiction novel is an infinitive phrase
We are encouraged to finish our homework before 8 o'clock. (To finish our homework is
an infinitive phrase

Gerund phrases

Gerund phrases always have a verb form with an -ing ending.
Writing more than 20 novels in such a short time is quite an achievement. (Writing more
than 20 novels in such a short time is a gerund phrase
We enjoy watching fireworks from afar. (Watching fireworks from afar is a gerund
phrase

Participial phrases

There are two types of participial phrases the present participle and the past participle phrase.
Like the gerund phrase, the present participle phrase always has the verb form with an -ing

126
ending. However, while the gerund phrase functions as a noun, the present participle phrase
functions as an adjective.
Writing more than 20 novels in such a short time is quite an achievement. (Writing more
than 20 novels is considered a noun = a gerund
The kid now running 10 miles an hour is in extremely good shape. (Running 10 miles an
hour modifies the kid and functions as an adjective

The past participle phrase has a past participle form of the verb ending in -ed
Interested in John Grisham ’s work, Lisa starts to make a collection of his books.
(interested in John Grisham’s work is a past participle phrase
Exhausted by the rigorous exercise, he fell asleep instantly. (Exhausted by the rigorous
exercise is a past participle phrase

Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

What is a phrase?  A phrase is a combination of words that
adds detail to a sentence and makes it
more descriptive.

What is the difference between a phrase  Unlike a sentence or clause, a phrase
and a sentence or clause? usually does not contain a subject or a
predicate and does not reflect a
complete thought.

When does he want to leave?
Where did he hide his bike?
What would he consider bad news?

 He wants to leave before noon.

 He hided his bike behind the shed.

 To fail the college entrance test is one
of the worst news for him.

 To graduate from college with honors is
her dearest wish.

 Sitting on the beach is the best way to
spend hot summer nights.

 Wearing your red dress is the best choice
in this situation.

 The boy now practicing in that field is
the best player of my team.

 The young girl now reading at the
college level is my best 10grade

 

What is her dearest wish?

 

What is the best way to spend hot summer
nights?
What is the best choice in this situation?

Who is the best player in your team?

 F&F FF F&F FSF PPPS

Who is the best student in your class?

 

student.
What is she doing now that she is finished  Finished with her studies, she begins
with her studies? her job-hunting process.
Why is she so unhappy?  Scolded unfairly by her coach, she feels
so unhappy.

127
 

 

TWENTY-THREE
GRADUATION

 

Situation Annie met Liz after she had purchased a graduation gift for her sister VeronicBoth
of them are talking about the graduation ceremony and Veronica’s plan of action after finishing
jour years of studies.

Liz That is a very lovely bouquet of flowers. Who is it for?

Annie These flowers are for my sister VeronicToday is her graduation day.

Liz It must have cost you a fortune.

Annie | paid sixty dollars for it.

Liz That is expensive.

Annie Yes, but it is worth it. My sister worked very hard for her degree over the last four years.
Today is a very important day for her, and I want it to be special.

Liz That is very nice of you. I wish it is our graduation day also.

Annie Another three years and we will be done also. Three years seems to be a long time. Yet,
it is not too bad.

Liz Where are they going to hold the graduation ceremony?
Annie The ceremony will be held on upper campus near the library at 300PM.

Liz I believe the school of Business and the school of Engineering hold the same graduation
ceremony.

Annie That will be a big ceremony. Imagine all the graduating students from both schools along
with their relatives and acquaintances.

Liz You better show up early; otherwise, there will not be a seat left for you.
Annie I better get a seat close to the stage if I want to get good pictures of my sister.

Liz I think all the seats up front are reserved for the graduating students. If you want to be close
to the stage, you probably will have to stand close by.

Annie That will be good enough for me. I can snatch pictures of her when she walks by.
Liz The University always has at least two professional photographers to take pictures of the

students when they go upstage for their diploma.

128

 
Annie Yes, I heard that the photographers usually take a couple of pictures of each student—
ordinarily, when the students receive their diploma and when the school’s President shakes their
hands in congratulation.

Liz That will take care of the whole thing then. All the important moments will be captured on
film.

Annie And after the ceremony, there will be plenty of time to take pictures of my sister with our
family and her friends.

Liz The university store usually does not require the students to return their graduating gowns
and caps right after the ceremony.

Annie Yes, Veronica has the option of returning them the next day.
Liz She will be wearing a black gown and cap with a gold tassel, nght?

Annie Yes. I wonder how she will feel. She will probably be very excited, very happy, and also
very relieved to be done with her studies for now.

Liz What do you mean by “for now”? Is she planning to pursue graduate studies?

Annie Yes, but she plans to find a job first, and then she will go back to school for her Masters
degree.

Liz You mean she will work for a while and then quit to go back to school full-time?

Annie No, she needs to work to support herself. She will work full-time and go to school part-
time at night.

Liz It will be hard to hold a full-time job while going to school.

Annie I know it will not be easy; however, lots of people have done it. So, she can too.
Liz I am sure she will be able to do that. She is such a smart person, and hard-working too.
Annie I wish I am as disciplined as she is.

Liz Have fun, Annie. Tell your sister that I send my best wishes.

Annie Thanks. Bye, Liz.

Liz Bye, Annie.


 

EXERCISES

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of Liz, and
another the role of Annie.

2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

What are your plans after graduation?  I want to take some times off to travel
before I start looking for a new job.

Who will attend your graduation ceremony?  My family and some of my friends will
be there.

What will you do to celebrate this special day?  My friends and I plan to go ona ski trip
to celebrate our graduation.

How do you feel about your graduation day?  I feel very excited, yet a little bit sad
because my school days are over.

Do you plan to go back to school once  Definitely, I plan to go to graduate
your new life is settled? school.
What are your parents’ feelings on this  They are very happy and very proud

130
special day? of me because I am the first one in our
family to graduate from college.
Are they going to organize a graduation party  They already made plans for the party

for you? two months ago.
What is your chance of getting a good job?  I think I have a good chance of getting
the job that I want.

3 Comprehension test

a Why did Annie buy the bouquet of flowers?

b Why did Annie buy the bouquet of flowers even though it costs so much?

c When will Liz and Annie graduate from college?

d Where do they hold the graduation ceremony?

e Why is it going to be a big graduation ceremony?

f What should Annie do to get good pictures of her sister?

g What kinds of arrangement did the school make as far as graduation pictures?
h When will the photographers take pictures of the graduates?

i Why does Annie’s sister have plenty of time for pictures after the graduation ceremony?
J What kind of graduation garment do the students wear?

k What will Annie’s sister do after she finds a job?

4 Discussion

a What would you like to happen on your graduation day?

b How will you feel on your graduation day?

c Is graduation day an important moment of your life? Why? Why not?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW

PUNCTUATION MARKS

Punctuation marks are used to clarify the thoughts expressed in a sentence. These special marks
play a very important role and should not be overlooked in the study of grammar.

Importance of punctuation marks
Punctuations marks are extremely important to sentences as they help to clarify the writer’s
thoughts and ease the understanding of the readers. Two of the most common problems that
happen in the absence of correct punctuation are
1 Run-on sentences This is the case where different independent clauses are put together
within a sentence without being separated by any punctuation.
My mother always runs out of time she has to rush from one project to another. (Run-on
sentence
My mother always runs out of time; she has to rush from one project to another.
(Correct
My mother always runs out of time, and she has to rush from one project to another.
(Correct
My mother always runs out of time. She has to rush from one project to another.
(Correct

131
2 Comma splices This is the case where a comma is used incorrectly to separate two

independent clauses.

My mother always runs out of time, she has to rush from one project to another. (Comma

splice

Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.
What do you plan to do on your
graduation day?

How do you feel on this special day?
What will you wear on your graduation day?

When is your graduation day?

When and where will they hold the
graduation ceremony?

When did your sister graduate from college?

Does Ann deserve to graduate?

Does Ann deserve to graduate?

What do you want for graduation gifts?

What did your mother say when she
called you?


 I plan to attend the graduation
ceremony, and I will wear my best dress
for this occasion.

 I feel extremely happy on this day.

 I will wear a black gown, a black cap,

and a gold tassel.

 May 25 is my graduation day.

The graduation ceremony will be held at
330PM on Friday near the library.

 She graduated on May 25th, 2005.

 Ann worked very hard the last four

years; she deserves to graduate.

 Ann worked very hard the last four

years; therefore, she deserves to
graduate.

I want these gifts a new purse, a new
dress, a new pair of shoes, and a ticket
to ABA’s concert.

She said, “I am very proud of you.”

132
SECTION IV

HOLIDAYS
 

 

TWENTY-FOUR
HALLOWEEN

 

Situation Patrick and Sara are planning to go trick-or-treating on Halloween night. Because
they are too young to go by themselves, their mom asks their two older siblings, either Christine
or Ian, to take them around the neighborhood.

Patrick Wow! Today is October 30th! Halloween is tomorrow already! Have you decided
what you will be dressing up for Halloween yet, Sara?

Sar I’m not sure what I want to be yet. I want to be either a butterfly or a pumpkin. But why
do we dress up for Halloween?

Patrick Halloween is a festival for children, and costumes make it more special. I think we
have much more fun going from house to house asking for candies (trick-or-treating after sunset
dressed in our favorite costumes.

Sar Yes, I remember having a lot of fun last year when mom took me around in a bunny
outfit. Do you know what you want to be yet, Patrick?

Patrick I want to be Batman! I like wearing the cape and the mask. I think you should be a
butterfly. You are so much shorter than me, and dressed in a pumpkin costume, someone might
think you really are one and try to make a pie out of you.

Sar How could anyone mistake me for a real pumpkin? Real pumpkins do not have a head or
arms or legs. But I suppose I will be a butterfly anyway. I can have pretty wings.

Patrick Great! So you will be a butterfly and I will be Batman. Let’s go ask Mom if we can
go trick-or-treating tomorrow night by ourselves. Although you are still young, I think I am old
enough to watch over the both of us.

Sar OK, let’s go ask mom!

Patrick MOM! Can Sara and I go trick-or-treating by ourselves tomorrow? I can watch over
Sara and make sure she stays out of trouble.

Sar Yes, Mom. If we go by ourselves, then you can stay home and relax. You will not have
to get cold waiting for us.

Mom Thank you for offering, Patrick. However, I will be worried and I will not be able to
relax if you and your brother go by yourselves while I stay home. Let me ask Christine or Ian if
one of them can go with both of you. Then I can stay home and relax. Christine! Ian!

Christine & Ian What, Mom? You called us?

134

 
Mom Do you have any free time tomorrow night? Can one of you take Patrick and Sara
around the neighborhood so that they can trick-or-treat on Halloween?

Christine I can take them, Mom. I do not have any plans tomorrow.

Ian Mom, I heard you wanted to go watch a movie tomorrow night with Dad. If you want, I
can stay at home and give out candies to any trick-or-treaters who come by while Christine takes
Patrick and Sara trick-or-treating.

Christine Then you and Dad can have a little fun on Halloween too.

Sar So Mom and Dad can relax!

Mom Sounds like a plan, kids. Thanks a lot!

Patrick Well, I think I am old enough to take Sara around by myself, but maybe we can get
more candy if Christine comes. Hey Christine, how about you trick-or-treat with us, and give us

your candy afterwards?

Christine No way, Patrick. I will eat every Hershey’s, Reese’s, Snickers, and Twix I get. You
can have my Jolly Ranchers though.

Ian Well, it seems as though everything is settled and everyone will have some Halloween fun.
I think I am going to have the most fun of all though. I get to eat all the candies that I do not
give away, and I do not even have to trick-or-treat for it!

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of five students, and have cach play a role.

2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

Is there a festival for children in your country?  Yes, we have the Mid-Autumn Moon

festival.

When do you celebrate this festival?  We celebrate it on the fifteenth day of
the eighth Lunar month every year.

How did this festival come about?  It came about a long time ago when

parents wished to spend more time with
their children after the harvest season.

How important is this holiday?  It is one of the most important holidays
besides New Year.

What do children do on this holiday?  They light up their lanterns and parade
in the streets or around their
neighborhood.

Are they going to carry those big red lanterns  No, they carry lanterns of all shapes and

that I see hanging in the stores? colors such as the shape of fish, stars or
butterflies.

What else do they do?  They sing Mid-Autumn Moon songs, eat

moon cakes, and perform some
traditional dances.

What do their parents do in the meantime?  Most of the time, their parents drink tea
and eat moon cakes while watching
them have fun.

Are there any other traditions?  People give cach other boxes of moon
cakes also.

3 Comprehension test

a What is Halloween?

b When do people celebrate Halloween?

c What do Sarah and Patrick want to be?

d Why doesn’t their mother allow them to go trick-or-treating by themselves?

e Who is going to take Sarah and Patrick trick-or-treating?

f Why does Ian offer to stay at home to give out candy?

g What does Patrick want from Christine when they return from trick-or-treating?
h What is Christine willing to give Patrick?

i Why does Ian think he will have the most fun of all?

4 Discussion
a What are the special holidays for children in your country? How do people celebrate them?

136
b What is your most favorite holiday? Why?
c Do we need holidays in our life? Why? Why not?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW
PUNCTUATION MARKS

Periods (.



2

Put a period at the end of a sentence.
I want to dress up as a butterfly.

Use the period after an indirect question.
He asked when they would go trick-or-treating.

Commas (,



2

When two or more independent clauses are connected by a coordinating conjunction
(and, for, so, but... in a sentence, a comma should be placed after the first clause.
I like the pumpkin costume, but I will wear the butterfly costume instead.

Use commas to separate elements listed in a series. Usually, add the word and before the
last element.

I will eat every Hershey's, Reese’s, Snickers, and Twix that I get.

Martha is a loveable child because she is friendly, thoughtful, and kind.

Note
And sometimes should not be used with adjectives because doing so would not correctly
describe the person or thing.


I always remember the good old days when we lived in San Francisco.
I always remember the good and old days when we lived in San Francisco.

Use commas to separate a long phrase used for introduction from the independent clause.
There is no need for a comma in the case of a short phrase.

Besides buying the butterfly costume, Sara also wants to get the pumpkin costume.
Besides asking for long vacations, he also wants a five-dollar-per-hour raise.

Last night I went trick-or-treating until 8 o’clock. (No comma after /ast night in this
sentence because it is a short phrase

Use commas to set off nonessential clauses.

The decision made by the whole family, after everybody agreed, was no trick-or-treating
after 900PM. (After everybody agreed is a nonessential clause

The book on etiquette, which is on the table, was written by Nancy Anderson. (Which is
on the table is a nonessential clause

Use commas between contrasting elements in a sentence.

Christine likes Hershey’s, but hates Jolly Ranchers.
I went home early for a rest, not for more work.

137
6 Use commas to address people in a personal or friendly letter.

Dear Lucy,
Dear Grandma,

7 Use commas after transitional words such as then, nevertheless, moreover, of course,

indeed, therefore.

Indeed, we have already discussed the situation with mom.
I told you what I did to save the situation. Nevertheless, I don’t want you to act the same.

8 Use a comma after yes, no, well.

Yes, I want to go trick-or-treating.

Well, the dates were already set.

9 Use commas to separate a direct quotation from the rest of the sentence when the source

or speaker is identified.

The public cries, “Long lives the Queen!”

Jennifer Aniston gave this advice to her fans, “Life is rough, wear a helmet!”

10 Use commas to separate the name of a city from the name of a state.

I live in San Jose, California.

11 Use commas in dates.

I finished building my house on December 15, 1975.

12 Use commas to express light exclamations.

Wow, this is really fantastic!
Oh, what a nice surprise!

Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.
When is Halloween?
Is Halloween a festival for adults?

Why do kids have so much fun on Halloween?

Do adults wear costumes on that day?

What is the other thing that kids like so much?
How long do they usually trick-or-treat?

How do they go around the neighbourhood?

A

A
A
A
A
A
A

Halloween is always on October 31“.

 Halloween is mainly a festival for kids,

but adults do have fun also.

 They have a lot of fun because they get

to wear costumes.

 Yes, some of them wear costumes to

work or to Halloween patties.

 They love to go around the

neighbourhood asking for candy.

 They usually start at 5PM, and they will

stop at around 830PM.

 Ordinarily, young children are

accompanied by their parents. Older
kids usually trick-or-treat in groups with their friends.

Do they get a lot of candies?  Yes, they usually get lots and lots of
candies.

How do they hold their candies?  They always carry a bag to hold the
candies that they get from trick-or-
treating.

What do they say when people open the door?  Before people give them candies, they
always yell, “trick-or-treat.”

What is the main symbol for Halloween?  Pumpkin is the main symbol for
Halloween. Indeed, people sell a lot of
pumpkins during this holiday.



TWENTY-FIVE
THANKSGIVING

 

Situation Tom and Mary are on their way to their grandparent’s home to celebrate
Thanksgiving with the rest of their family.

Mary Mom, are we almost there yet? I am so hungry I could eat this whole dish of cornbread!
Mom Not quite, Mary. We have about another hour of driving before we reach Grandma’s
house. I know both of you are very hungry, so how about some apples? I cut some into slices
before we left this morning.

Tom What about the cornbread, Mom? Can we each have a piece? They look so good!

Mom Not yet Tom. Don’t you want to wait until you get to Grandma’s house and share the
cornbread with everyone? Remember, Thanksgiving is a holiday to celebrate with family.

Tom OK, Mom. I suppose I can wait until we get there then. Mary, do you want to share some
of these apple slices with me?

Mary Yes, please! I am so hungry—I cannot wait to eat Aunt Grace’s yams, Grandma Patty’s
mashed potatoes, Uncle Joe’s steaks...

Tom Uncle Tom’s turkey, or Aunt Sue’s pumpkin pie!
Mom Stop it youtwo! I am getting hungry now too!

Mary Mom, why do we always eat these types of foods on Thanksgiving? What is so special
about these dishes?

Mom Actually, the food is not the focus of Thanksgiving. We eat these dishes because they are
traditional Thanksgiving dishes; however, the main focus of this holiday is really to praise and
give thanks to God for all our blessings. And what better way to celebrate God’s blessings than
to gather with our family, the biggest blessing of all?

Tom I learned in History class that Thanksgiving does not happen on a specific date like
Christmas does every December 25th. Instead, Thanksgiving is always celebrated on the fourth
Thursday of November each year.

Mary Ahhhh! So Thanksgiving is like Tet? There is no specific date for Tet. Tet just starts on
the first day of the new moon.

Tom I suppose you could say that Thanksgiving and Tet are similar in that manner. But they

are two completely different holidays! Didn’t you learn anything about Thanksgiving in your
class? Do you remember the Pilgrims or the Native Americans?

140

 
Mary Yes, I remember learning about Squanto, the Native American who taught the Pilgrims
how to grow corn when they first came to AmericHe was a big help to the Pilgrims, and
without him, they might not have survived.

Tom So, to show their appreciation, the Pilgrims hosted a feast and invited the Native
Americans to eat with them. This is probably another reason why our family comes together for
Thanksgiving.

Mom That is right, Tom. Families also come together to appreciate one another.

Mary Does that mean that Dad will make it to Grandma’s house in time for Thanksgiving
dinner then?

Mom Of course he will! Dad shortened his business trip a few days just so he could make it to
Grandma’s house for Thanksgiving, so you see how important Thanksgiving is? I called Uncle
Joe before we left home to ask him to pick up Dad from the airport. He might even be at
Grandma’s house already, waiting for us to get there!

Mary Great! I really wish we were already at Grandma’s house! I cannot wait to see Dad!

Tom Yeah, and then we can all eat together! What a great Thanksgiving!

 


 

EXERCISES

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of three students. Have one student plays the role of Mom,
another the role of Tom and another the role of Mary.

2 Questions/Answers Practice

141
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

What are you thankful for this year?  I am thankful for having my whole
family with me this year, especially my
youngest son who was away for so long.
I have really missed him, and now I am

completely happy.

What do you usually do on Thanksgiving?  [always spend time with my family on
Thanksgiving.

What does your family do on this day?  We cook a big dinner and enjoy it
together as a family.

What do you usually cook?  We always have turkey, the traditional

food for this holiday, among many other
dishes. The holiday itself is often
nicknamed Turkey Day.

Is it difficult to cook a turkey?  It is not difficult, but it does take a long
time to cook a turkey. We usually bake
it. However, some people fry theirs.

Are there any other traditions besides  Yes, each year the President of the
eating turkey? United States pardons a turkey at a
White House ceremony.
What happened to the turkeys?  From 1990 to 2004, the turkeys were

given to a zoo in VirginiHowever, in
2005 and 2006 they were flown to
Disneyland in California for
Disneyland's Thanksgiving Day parade.
Are there any other traditions regarding these  Yes, they were usually given a name. In

turkeys? 2007, the two pardoned turkeys were
named May and Flower.
Is it a legal holiday in America?  Yes, it is. Some companies give their
employees one day off. Others give two.
Do you get one or two days off?  Tam one of those lucky persons who get

two days off. So, a total of four days off
ina row this week.

3 Comprehension test

a Why are Tom and Mary going to their grandma’s house?

b How much longer does their mother have to drive?

c Why shouldn’t they have a piece of cornbread before reaching grandma’s house?
d What kind of foods will they have at grandma’s house?

e What is the main reason for the Thanksgiving holiday?

f Why are Thanksgiving and Tet alike?

g What kind of help did the pilgrims receive when they came to America?

h How did Thanksgiving come about?

i Why is Tom’s father not driving with his family?

142
4 Discussion

a Is there a holiday which is similar to Thanksgiving in your country?

b What do you do to give thanks for all the blessings that you received in your life?
c Should we take the time to help people who need help? Why? Why not?

d Did you ever need help? What happened?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW
PUNCTUATIONS

Semicolons



2

3

4

Use semicolons to separate independent clauses in the absence of a conjunction.
Semicolons are placed between clauses to connect two closely related ideas.
Tom is very hungry; he can eat some apple slices.

Life can be very tough; get some education to help you go through life.

Use semicolons when conjunctive adverbs such as however, therefore, otherwise, instead,
then, thus are used to connect two independent clauses. A comma should be added after
the conjunctive adverb.

Tom’s father is on a business trip; therefore, he cannot drive his family to grandma's
house.

He loves to eat cheesecakes; however, he decided not to have them in order to maintain
his weight.

Use semicolons before for example, namely, for instance, as when they introduce a list of
things.

People cook a lot of traditional foods on Thanksgiving Day; namely, mashed potatoes,
turkey, pie, and yam.

The harsh weather conditions in Alaska demand that travelers bring a lot of things; for
example, boots to protect their feet, a parka to protect their upper body, and gloves for
their hands.

Use semicolons when the sentence contains a list of items separated by commas.
The party for John’s retirement can be set on Friday, December 2nd; Saturday,
December 3rd; or Sunday, December 4th.

The principal included Jane and John, the fifth graders; Sarah and Peter, the fourth
graders; and Karen and Tim, the third graders in the ceremony.

Colons (



2

Use colons when presenting a list.

Foods to be prepared for Thanksgiving mashed potatoes, yams, turkey, and pies.
These students deserve a prize Jack Green, Lawrence Milton, Jennifer Houston, and
Leslie Warren.

Use colons before lengthy quotations set off by indentation rather than by quotation

marks.
The movie Gone with the Wind was described as follows

143
Excellent movie depicting a time of great distress and turmoil with flamboyance
and accuracy. The great performance of all actors and actresses further enhances
the excellence of the movie...

3 Use colons between hours and minutes.
It was 1254 PM when we arrived at grandma’s house.

4 Use colons instead of commas to address a person in business letters.
Gentlemen
Dear Mr. Commissioner

Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

Do you celebrate holidays?  Ilove holidays; I celebrate each and
every holiday with all the energy that I
have.

What do you do to celebrate a holiday?  Ina way, holiday means joy, relaxation

and sharing; therefore, I always spend
my holidays doing something around
the people I love.

Who do you love to be around with?  Like I said the people that I love;
namely, my parents, my brothers and
sisters, Carol and Jim, and Tina.

Are those all the people you want to be  If you want the whole list, then I also
around with? want these people Mary, Leslie, John,

and Steve.

When is the next holiday?  Independence Day is the next holiday; it
is on July 4of every year.

What will you do on Independence Day?  Itis quite hot in July; therefore, I will
probably hold a barbecue at the beach.

What kind of foods will you have?  Something that can be easily cooked;
for example, hot dogs, hamburgers, and
pasta salad.

Will you play some music?  Definitely, I will play the following

types of music Country, Rock
and Roll and Classical music.

144
 

 

TWENTY-SIX
NEW YEAR’S EVE

 

Situation Matthew is preparing for a party to celebrate New Year's Eve. While discussing the
party with Phuong, a friend visiting from Vietnam, Matthew realizes that his party will be
Phuong’s first time celebrating the American New Year.

Matthew This party is going to be the best ever! I am so glad you came to visit in time to
celebrate the New Year with me, Phuong.

Phuong Thank you for inviting me. I get to celebrate two New Years this year then. My
parents asked me to come back home to celebrate the Vietnamese New Year with them, but that
is not until February 7

Matthew Oh, that is right! You and I celebrate New Years at different times! Although the
date of the Vietnamese New Year depends on when the new moon rises, Americans celebrate the
New Year precisely on January 1“, regardless of whatever phase the moon is currently in.

Phuong Why are you having the party tonight? Why not wait until tomorrow?

Matthew Well, don’t you stay up the night before waiting for New Years to start? I remember
you telling me awhile ago that you would stay up the night, waiting to set off fireworks with
your friends when midnight finally arrives.

Phuong Yes, we do stay up the night before. It is called

Matthew Exactly! So your  celebration is exactly like my New Year’s Eve
party. Although the party will not be as big as the one in New York, we will still be counting
down to midnight.

Phuong How do you know about a party in New York if you live in California? Were you
invited to the party?

Matthew No, I was not invited to the party exactly. I know about the celebration in New York
because it is broadcasted on TV every year. And, everyone is welcome to attend; it is not an
exclusive party like the one I am throwing tonight.

Phuong This party is shown on television? What is so special about it?

Matthew Well, it is quite a big celebration. Everyone gathers at a traffic intersection in New
York called Times Square to watch various musical artists perform as they wait for midnight to

come. But everyone’s attention is mainly focused on the Ball.

Phuong The ball?

145

 
Matthew Yes, there is a very tall pole that stands upright on top of a building overlooking
Times Square and at the very last minute before midnight, a large ball slowly slides down the
pole. The Ball is made of crystal and electric lights and signifies the New Year. When the Ball
reaches the bottom of the pole precisely at midnight, everyone celebrates the arrival of the New
Year.

Phuong Wow, that all sounds so exciting! I wish I could see the Ball drop. Perhaps I should
have gone to New York instead of coming to California to visit you.

Matthew Well!

Phuong I am just teasing you, Matthew. I would rather celebrate this New Year with you than a
bunch of strangers in New York.

Matthew Well, I am glad to celebrate New Year with you too, Phuong. And if you really want
to see the Ball drop, it is always televised remember? I was planning on turning the TV on
before the countdown begins. We can all count down the last minute of this year and watch the
Ball drop together.

Phuong Awesome! Your New Year customs are so fascinating. I am glad to be here at the
right time.

EXERCISES

1 Conversation Practice

Step 1 Have the students listen to the recorded dialogue.

Step 2 Have the students read along to the recorded dialogue.

Step 3 Divide your class into groups of two students. Have one student plays the role of
Matthew, and another the role of Phuong.

146
2 Questions/Answers Practice

Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come

up with similar questions and answers.

What is the significance of Tet?  Tet marks the beginning of Spring, and it
is the most important holiday in Viet
Nam.

How do people celebrate this special holiday?  Tet is a long holiday. People take at least
three days to celebrate it.

What do they usually do to get ready for Tet?  They always cook special foods and
thoroughly clean their houses.

Are markets very busy at this time?  Markets are full of people because

everybody is busy shopping for
gifts, for foods, and for their children’s
new clothing.

Do people sweep their houses during Tet?  No, because sweeping during Tét is like
sweeping away money and luck.

How do they decorate their houses?  People always decorate their houses with
flowers. There are flower markets
everywhere.

What do they do during the three days?  They do ancestral worshipping, go to
church or temple, and visit relatives and
friends.

What happen to the children?  They wear their new clothes and receive
lucky money from their parents and
people.

What are some of the most enjoyable things  Staying up on New Year’s Eve to do

people do on New Year’s Eve? ancestral worshipping, and lighting
firecrackers to welcome the New Year
are some of the most enjoyable things.

How do you like Tet?  Tet is my favorite holiday. I get to enjoy

good foods, spend quality time with
my family and friends, and most of all
no school.

3 Comprehension test

a Why does Phuong get to celebrate two New Years this year?

b What is the difference between an American and a Vietnamese New Year?
c Why do Phuong and her friends stay up the night before New Year?

d In which ways are the New Year’s Eves in America and in Vietnam alike?
e What is the most special event on New Year’s Eve in America?

f What do people in New York do to celebrate the arrival of the New Year?
g What does it mean when the Ball reaches the bottom of the pole?

h What do people do when the Ball reaches the bottom of the pole?

i How can they watch the party in New York without being there?

147
4 Discussion

a Describe the activities on New Year’s Eve and on New Year Day in your country.
b What are your favorite traditions on these days? Why?

c How do you feel about New Year now that you are no longer a child?

 

GRAMMAR REVIEW
PUNCTUATIONS
Dashes (—
1 Use dashes to insert a comment. .
My parents -like all parents- want me to be home on New Year Day.
I clearly remember the day—who would not—that President Kennedy was assassinated

2 Use dashes to give clarification to the terms used.
The preparation for New Year Day—new clothing, traditional foods, house-cleaning—is
very time-consuming.
The weather-wind, temperature, and rain-is extremely harsh in Alaska during the winter.
The winners—James, Helen, and Lucy-were very studious during the school year.

Hyphens (-
1 Use hyphens to join elements in compound words. .
Brother-in-law
Vice-president

2 Use hyphens in most compound modifiers placed before nouns.
A right-handed person
The fresh-cut flowers

3 Use hyphens to write numbers from 21 to 99.
Twenty-one
One hundred eighty-four

4 Use hyphens when numbers are used to depict a person or thing.
Four-year degree
Sixteen-year-old teenager

Italics
Use italics for names of books, poems, articles, work of art, movies, musical productions, ships,
aircrafts and trains. .

I saw Gone with the Wind yesterday.

He went on the Queen Mary ship in Long Beach.

Questions/Answers Practice
Pair the students and have them practice the following questions and answers. Ask them to come
up with similar questions and answers.

148
How do you feel about holidays?

What do you do on these holidays?

What else would you want to do on
these holidays?

Who will take care of your pets while you
are away?

When was the last time you had
a long vacation?

Who did you go with?
Where exactly did you go?

What did you do while you were away?

 All holidays—Independence Day,

Thanksgiving, New Year—are my
favourite days.

 Either relax—reading a book, sleeping

late, eat out—or cook a big feast for
my family and friends.

 I would want to travel—who would

not—if I have enough money.

 My sister-in-law will probably take care

of them for me.

 It was during the summer of last year.

I went away for a total of twenty-one
days.

 I went with my fifteen-year-old

daughter.

 I went to Long Beach to see the Queen

Mary ship.

 Among other things, I finished reading

War and Peace, the famous classical
novel of all times.

149

